Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6507
Vol. 166 WASHINGTON, SUNDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2020 No. 184—Part II
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Tuesday, October 27, 2020, at 10 a.m.
Senate
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2020
(Legislative day of Monday, October 19, 2020)
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam Presi-
dent, I rise today to join my colleagues
in opposing the confirmation of Judge
Amy Coney Barrett as Justice of the
Supreme Court. This is the wrong time
to be choosing a Supreme Court Jus-
tice, and Justice Barrett is the wrong
candidate for a seat on that Court.
The timing of tonight’s confirmation
vote is shocking. The majority of
Americans want to be able to weigh in
on who should sit in Justice Ruth
Bader Ginsburg’s seat on the highest
Court in the land. They want to vote to
choose a President to fill that vacancy.
We are 8 days away from Americans
casting their final votes in the 2020
election. Over 58 million Americans
have already voted, including more
than 649,000 Nevadans. The American
people are making their voices heard in
response to this administration’s disas-
trous handling of the coronavirus pan-
demic, which has led to the loss of
225,000 American lives, including 1,748
Nevadans, and sickened over 95,000 Ne-
vadans.
In the middle of this crisis, Congress
should be doing everything it can to
address the needs of the American peo-
ple. Instead, the Senate majority lead-
er is ramming through a nominee at
breakneck pace. He and the President
are rushing this nominee’s confirma-
tion for a reason, which is because they
believe, based on Judge Barrett’s own
public statements, that she will be the
decisive vote to overturn the Afford-
able Care Act in a case that will be
heard just a week after the election.
On November 10, the Supreme Court
will listen to arguments from lawyers
in a court case about whether the Af-
fordable Care Act is constitutional.
Majority Leader MCCONNELL and the
President want a Justice who shares
their views on the Affordable Care Act
seated on the Court by that date.
Amy Coney Barrett’s record on the
ACA, not to mention her stance on the
rights for women and the LGBTQ
Americans that you have heard from
my colleagues today and you will hear
throughout the night, but her record
on the ACA poses tremendous risk to
Nevadans at a time when they need
every help we can extend to them dur-
ing this health pandemic.
That is why I opposed her nomina-
tion to the Seventh Circuit Court of
Appeals back in 2017, and that is why I
oppose her confirmation to the Su-
preme Court today. Instead of rushing
her through in a partisan fashion to a
lifetime seat on the Supreme Court, we
should be working together to get the
additional coronavirus relief that Ne-
vadans and Americans so badly need
right now.
Most of us here in the Senate under-
stand that the American people need
help to cope with the pandemic. To
save lives and to stop the spread of the
virus, people have to wear masks, they
wash their hands, and they socially dis-
tance. That has meant that businesses
haven’t been able to operate as usual.
Some companies have been able to
rethink their business models and
thrive, but others just can’t substitute
online interactions for in-person con-
tact. That includes Nevada’s world-
class travel, tourism, and hospitality
industry.
During April, Nevada had the highest
unemployment rate ever recorded any-
where in the country at 30 percent. We
are recovering from that peak more
slowly than other States, and we still
have one of the highest unemployment
rates in the country. In August, second
only to Hawaii’s, it was 12.6 percent.
Nevadans are hurting. Nevadans are
hurting, Americans are hurting, and
my constituents tell me about it all
the time, and the data is clear what I
see in Nevada. One in seven Nevadans
say they aren’t getting enough to eat,
and one in five Nevadans say the chil-
dren in their household are underfed.
There has been a 14-percent increase
in those receiving SNAP benefits in the
Silver State since February. There are
14 percent of Nevadans who say they
are behind on rent or mortgage, and 38
percent are having difficulty with
household expenses. There are 110,000
households in my home State that
could be at risk of eviction by January.
That is why I have spent weeks call-
ing on Leader MCCONNELL to extend
and expand upon the support that we
put in place in the relief legislation
that we passed in the first half of this
year. Unfortunately, instead of negoti-
ating another COVID relief package,
Leader MCCONNELL would rather play
politics.
Nevadans need to understand the par-
tisan political games that are being
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.315 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6508 October 25, 2020
played right now. Over the last 7
months, Senator MCCONNELL has re-
fused to come to the table to even ne-
gotiate with the administration, with
Speaker PELOSI, and Leader SCHUMER.
Now, Speaker PELOSI and Minority
Leader SCHUMER originally asked for
$3.4 trillion in a new stimulus package.
They have since come down to request
for $2.2 trillion in relief. That is a de-
crease of $1.2 trillion from their origi-
nal position. In return, as they have
been negotiating with the administra-
tion, President Trump and Secretary
Mnuchin have offered $1.8 trillion in
coronavirus relief. Clearly, Speaker
PELOSI and Secretary Mnuchin have
been working to get closer to an agree-
ment over the amount and structure of
the next needed comprehensive COVID
stimulus package.
Meanwhile, while that negotiation is
going on, Senator MCCONNELL is not
even at the table. He refuses to even
negotiate with the Democrats. Just
this week, last week, he has forced two
votes on the floor of the Senate on re-
lief packages that were crafted behind
closed doors with no bipartisan nego-
tiation, and the second package was
half the price of the one before. That is
not a negotiation. That is politics. Sen-
ator MCCONNELL doesn’t want to deal.
He hasn’t participated in the talks, and
he is proposing less than a third of
what even the Secretary of the Treas-
ury thinks we need.
Instead, the majority leader has been
laser-focused on one thing and one
thing only, rushing through the Su-
preme Court nomination for Judge
Amy Coney Barrett. There is a reason
he is pushing so hard. He and others in
the GOP have been obsessed with get-
ting rid of the Affordable Care Act
since it passed, and in Amy Coney Bar-
rett, they see their chance to finally do
just that.
Now, I want Nevadans to understand
exactly what is at stake and how we
got here. Let me lay out the timeline
of just some of the dozens of Repub-
lican attacks on the Affordable Care
Act and how Judge Barrett fits into
their larger plan to overturn
healthcare protections.
In 2010, the Obama administration
passed the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act, the ACA, to bring
down healthcare costs and make sure
that Americans had access to quality
healthcare. Now, Republicans have
been trying to repeal it ever since, vot-
ing at least 70 times—70 times—to undo
the law in Congress. When they failed
in Congress, they attempted in the
courts.
Republicans have repeatedly used the
courts to challenge Congress’s power to
enact the ACA. Their first attempt
ended in failure in 2012 when the U.S.
Supreme Court upheld the important
provisions of the ACA in an opinion
written by Chief Justice Roberts in the
landmark case, NFIB v. Sebelius, but
that has not stopped the Republican
leadership.
Even though a majority of the Amer-
ican people have made it clear over and
over that they want the ACA and its
extensive protections for healthcare,
this administration and MITCH MCCON-
NELL have been stacking the court with
Federal judges they believe would over-
turn the ACA, and Professor Barrett
fits their profile.
In 2017, Professor Amy Coney Barrett
wrote a book review article for Notre
Dame Law School making it clear at
the time in that book review that she
thought Justice Roberts incorrectly
decided NFIB v. Sebelius. She said that
Chief Justice John Roberts ‘‘pushed
the Affordable Care Act beyond its
plausible meaning to save the statute.’’
Conservatives who agreed with her,
well, they took notice, because in May
of that same year, 2017, they nomi-
nated her to serve as a judge on the
Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals—go
from professor to a judge of the Sev-
enth Circuit Court of Appeals.
Now, while her nomination was pend-
ing in 2017, in July, the Republican
leaders in the Senate again tried to
force a vote to repeal the Affordable
Care Act, and during that vote, the
late Senator John McCain gave his fa-
mous thumbs down to show that he
would not be responsible for repealing
the ACA and ripping healthcare away
from millions of Americans.
Well, a couple of months later, Octo-
ber 2017, Amy Coney Barrett was ap-
pointed to the Seventh Circuit Court of
Appeals. I opposed her then for the
same reasons that I oppose her nomina-
tion today. One month later, in Novem-
ber, she is then placed on President
Trump’s list of potential nominees to
the U.S. Supreme Court. She just got
to the circuit court. A month later, she
is now on President Trump’s list. Why
is she on that list? Because she made it
very clear in her writings that she was
opposed to the Affordable Care Act.
Then 3 months later, in December of
2017, the Republicans in Congress
passed a bill that would continue their
attempts to sabotage the ACA. What
they couldn’t get done, because Sen-
ator John McCain and several others
stopped him, they continued to sabo-
tage it, so they passed a law. Based on
this new law, several Republican attor-
neys general then went to Court asking
the Court to rule the ACA unconstitu-
tional. That case is California v. Texas,
and it will be argued this year, Novem-
ber 10, just 2 weeks from now.
So their pathway has been con-
sistent; I give them credit for that. The
Republicans have been consistent in
wanting to do away with the Afford-
able Care Act. They have either tried it
here in Congress, or they are con-
tinuing to work the courts, and if they
can’t win in the courts, then let’s put
judges on the Federal benches that we
know will support our position, and
that is what you have happening. That
is why this is being rushed through
now, because they need Amy Coney
Barrett on the bench when that case is
heard November 10 to determine the
constitutionality of the Affordable
Care Act.
Let me tell you, the U.S. Department
of Justice has done everything it can
to assist their efforts to strike down
the ACA. They filed a brief. The U.S.
Department of Justice, on behalf of
President Trump’s administration,
have filed a brief arguing that the en-
tire law is invalid in support of those
Republican attorneys general who
want to do away with the Affordable
Care Act. They have done this because
the President wants them to.
In an interview with ‘‘60 Minutes’’
that aired just this evening, the Presi-
dent said that with regard to the Su-
preme Court’s decision on the Afford-
able Care Act, ‘‘I hope that they end
it.’’
That is not the only time. It is not a
secret. President Trump wants to do
away with healthcare coverage and pa-
tient protections in the middle of a
pandemic that has killed 225,000 Ameri-
cans, and he has been very clear about
it. I mean, look back. June 26, 2015:
If I win the Presidency—
When he was a candidate.
—my judicial appointments will do the right
thing, unlike Bush’s appointee, John Rob-
erts, on ObamaCare.
February 8, 2016:
I am disappointed—
This is President Trump.
—I am disappointed in Chief Justice Roberts
because he gave us ObamaCare. He had two
chances to end ObamaCare, and he should
have ended it by every single measurement,
and he didn’t do it, so that was a dis-
appointing one.
May 7, 2020, President Trump reiter-
ated his position:
We want to terminate healthcare under
ObamaCare, and ObamaCare is a disaster.
September 27, 2020, shortly after
Barrett’s nomination to the Supreme
Court, President Trump tweeted:
ObamaCare will be replaced with a much
better and far cheaper alternative if it is ter-
minated in the Supreme Court. It would be a
big win for the USA.
So, 4 years, at least, while I have
been here, Republicans have been try-
ing to repeal it, and this administra-
tion has been promising a replacement
for healthcare in this country if the Af-
fordable Care Act is repealed, but we
see no replacement. We know that they
have been putting judges on the Fed-
eral courts that will do their bidding—
or at least think that they will do their
bidding.
Now, let me give Judge Amy Coney
Barrett credit because here is the
thing: As an attorney, I respect judges,
and I am always looking for a judge—
a mainstream judge—who is going to
weigh the evidence and the facts, look
at the precedent, and make a decision
that is on behalf of this country and
the American people. So it is fair,
though, without knowing her back-
ground, to judge which way she is
going to rule and if she has an inherent
bias based on her writings. That is
what we do all the time.
What are her writings? Whether it is
in private life as a professor or as an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.315 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6509
October 25, 2020
attorney practicing law or as a judge in
her written opinions, that is fair game.
That will give us insight, because we
can’t see into somebody’s mind and
what they are thinking. That will give
us insight on their legal analysis.
We know what she said at the hear-
ing. There is two hearings: One is the
Seventh Circuit, and one is U.S. Su-
preme Court. I will say, in her con-
firmation hearings, Judge Barrett has
said:
I am not hostile to the ACA at all.
But this statement contradicts the
thing she said about the ACA before
her nomination to the court.
I believe now what I believed in 2017,
Judge Barrett’s writing showed her to
be clearly opposed to the ACA. My view
is that no one—no one—not even a
judge, should weaken those protections
for healthcare in this country during a
once-in-a-lifetime pandemic.
The Affordable Care Act is a crucial
part of the Nation’s response to
coronavirus. Without it, insurance
companies would be able to charge
more or even deny insurance to people
with preexisting conditions. That in-
cludes more than 95,000 Nevadans who
have had COVID–19 to date because
contracting that coronavirus is a pre-
existing condition. It includes another
1.2 million Nevadans with other pre-
existing conditions from asthma to
cystic fibrosis to depression.
Without the ACA, insurance compa-
nies would also be able to consider
pregnancy a preexisting condition as
they used to. The 1.5 million women in
Nevada could be charged more for their
care than men, and lifetime and annual
benefit caps could be reinstated.
If the Affordable Care Act is repealed
or found unconstitutional, insurance
companies would be able to kick chil-
dren off their parents’ insurance before
the age of 26. Across the country, with-
out the ACA, more than 20 million peo-
ple would lose their health coverage,
and over 135 million Americans would
lose protections for their preexisting
conditions. If the Supreme Court elimi-
nates the ACA, millions of newly unin-
sured people will be unable to afford
coronavirus treatment.
If you don’t have insurance and you
contract COVID–19, you are looking at
tens of thousands of dollars in hospital
bills. Let me tell you, this is especially
alarming because COVID–19 has hit
communities of color the hardest, in-
cluding in my State. In Nevada, a third
of our population are Latino; with an-
other 10 percent of the population Afri-
can-American; and 9 percent, fastest
growing Asian-American/Pacific Is-
lander; 2 percent, Native-American.
Among COVID–19 cases, however,
these numbers are practically turned
upside down. Forty-five percent of Ne-
vada’s COVID–19 cases are among
Latinos who make up 29 percent of the
population. And 29 percent of the cases
are among White Nevadans who are 45
percent of the population. Nevadans of
color are also overrepresented in the
numbers of those who have lost their
lives during this pandemic. In Nevada,
12 percent of those who have died of
COVID–19 are African-American and
another 12 percent are Asian-American/
Pacific Islander.
We also know from national data
that COVID–19 has particularly dev-
astating effects on children of color. Of
those under 21 who have been killed by
the coronavirus, more than 75 percent
have been Hispanic, Black, or Native
American. In addition, the coronavirus
pandemic has had a disproportionate
effect on pregnant women of color and
their babies.
Nationwide, Latino mothers make up
nearly half of the coronavirus cases
among pregnant women, according to
the CDC data through August.
Young people and communities of
color are also seeing the greatest eco-
nomic impact as a result of this pan-
demic. They are losing jobs and
healthcare at higher rates. A recent
study suggested that job losses would
mean that 5 million Black, Latino, and
Asian Americans would lose healthcare
during the pandemic.
People in these communities don’t
always have the financial reserves to
keep a roof over their heads, let alone
access to critical, physical, and mental
healthcare. Repealing the ACA would
just further jeopardize these Ameri-
cans, including millions in my home
State and across this country.
And without the ACA protections,
women in Nevada would also see ad-
verse impacts on their health. That is
because the ACA requires insurance
plans to offer women essential benefits,
like annual wellness examines, preven-
tive mammograms and other
screenings, maternity care, and access
to free birth control. If the law is
struck down, these benefits would go
too.
In fact, Judge Barrett publicly signed
a statement of protest against the ACA
contraceptive coverage requirements.
She said that those requirements were
‘‘an assault on religious liberty when
applied to religious employers and in-
stitutions.’’
But that is just the first part of the
danger that Judge Barrett represents
to women’s healthcare. She puts repro-
ductive health rights at risk across the
board.
In 2006, Judge Barrett signed a letter
that called for ‘‘an end to the barbaric
legacy of Roe v. Wade.’’
As a judge, she has repeatedly voted
to rehear cases that struck down un-
constitutional abortion restrictions.
During her confirmation hearing, she
refused to describe Roe v. Wade as a
superprecedent that could no longer be
challenged. These views suggest—her
written views and comments—that as
she predicted in a 2016 speech, a Trump
nominee to the Supreme Court would
mean that the restrictions on abortion
would change and that the Court would
likely increase how much freedoms
States have in regulating abortion, and
if those States have more freedom to
regulate abortion, it will lead to a
patchwork of different laws in different
States.
A recent study suggests that if Roe v.
Wade were overturned, the closest
abortion clinic would close for 41 per-
cent of women across the country, and
the distance to the nearest clinic would
increase from an average of 36 miles to
an average of 280 miles.
In 2020, American women shouldn’t
have to choose what State to live in
based on what kind of healthcare they
think that they can get. These are fun-
damental rights that shouldn’t be up
for grabs.
More than 80 percent of Nevadans be-
lieve that women should control their
own reproductive choices, and I stand
with them.
I am also concerned about the impact
that Judge Barrett would have on
LGBTQ Nevadans if she is confirmed to
the Court. The ACA contains specific
protections against discrimination
based on gender identity. The Trump
administration has already weakened
these protections significantly. If the
ACA is struck down altogether, people
who don’t conform to gender stereo-
types, including transgender Ameri-
cans, could face increased discrimina-
tion in healthcare.
A study of transgender patients be-
fore the ACA went into effect, found
that one in five had experienced dis-
crimination from doctors and that 28
percent have postponed medical care in
the past in order to try to avoid that
discrimination.
Judge Barrett could also pose a con-
siderable threat to the LGBTQ individ-
uals in other ways. During her con-
firmation hearings, she refused to say
whether she agreed with a decision in
Obergefell v. Hodges, which established
the right to same-sex marriage nation-
ally.
In 2015, she publicly signed a letter
stating that marriage is founded on the
indissoluble commitment of a man and
a woman. She has also publicly argued
that title IX of the Civil Rights Act
does not apply to transgender Ameri-
cans, noting that it seems to strain the
text of the statute to say that title IX
demands that the government guar-
antee transgender bathroom access.
So, again, I am very concerned that
if she is confirmed to the Court, Judge
Barrett will be an additional vote to
strike down things like same-sex mar-
riage and imperil the health of LGBTQ
Nevadans.
The truth is that Judge Barrett’s
views on a whole host of issues are far
from mainstream. In her short time in
the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals,
Judge Barrett has sided with corpora-
tions over workers and consumers in a
majority of business-related cases, re-
sulting in the erosion of workers’
rights and consumer protection rights.
She has suggested that voting rights
should be more easily restricted than
the right to possess firearms. And she
has ruled that the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act does not protect
job applicants from hiring practices
that harm older Americans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.316 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6510 October 25, 2020
Now, I have received over 18,000 let-
ters from Nevadans opposing her con-
firmation. That is compared to 3,900
supporting it. So, clearly, Nevadans are
concerned that Judge Barrett doesn’t
share their views, and they are right to
be concerned.
The Supreme Court makes decisions
about so many issues that affect our
communities, and it will be lifelong.
People in this country care deeply
about issues, and in so many cases,
Judge Barrett’s views are out of step
with what large majorities of Ameri-
cans want.
Seventy-seven percent of Americans
think we should stop unlimited dark
money from influencing our politics,
but a 6-to-3 conservative Court would
slam the door on campaign finance re-
form, allowing corporations and other
groups to throw their wealth behind
their pet policies.
Americans believe voting should be
easy, safe, and secure, and that you
shouldn’t have to risk your health dur-
ing a pandemic to cast your ballot.
But, again, a 6-to-3 conservative Court
with Amy Coney Barrett on the Bench
would make it harder for people to
vote, especially people in low-income
communities and communities of
color. And, again, bear in mind that we
are in the middle of an election.
If she is confirmed tonight, Justice
Barrett would also be in a position to
rule on any legal disputes about that
election.
That is one of many topics that she
simply refused to answer questions
about during her confirmation hear-
ings.
Now, it is understandable for a judge
to avoid questions about a case that
may come before her so that she
doesn’t prejudge the outcome. But
Judge Barrett refused to answer the
most basic of questions—questions that
any high school civic student knows
the answer to.
She wouldn’t say whether the Con-
stitution allows Congress to protect
the right to vote. Answer: It does in at
least five separate provisions.
She wouldn’t say whether the Presi-
dent of the United States can delay the
election. Answer: He can’t. That is not
within his authority.
She wouldn’t say whether the Presi-
dent should peacefully transfer power
to the winner of a Presidential elec-
tion. The most important American
principle is that we the people get to
decide who governs it, but Judge Bar-
rett wouldn’t even affirm that.
And she wouldn’t say whether voter
intimidation or voting twice in an elec-
tion is illegal. Well, it is. Those laws
are clearly on the books. It doesn’t
take a constitutional scholar to inter-
pret them.
People in Nevada and across the Na-
tion need to realize that many of the
rights and protections they enjoy are
one vote away from being ended by the
Supreme Court.
There are at least 120 landmark Su-
preme Court cases from the past sev-
eral decades that were 5-to-4 decisions,
with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg the
deciding vote in the majority and Jus-
tice Antonin Scalia, whose judicial phi-
losophy inspires Judge Barrett, in the
minority. There is every reason to
think that Judge Barrett would take
positions like Justice Scalia’s in those
areas and more.
With Amy Coney Barrett on the
Court, Americans’ civil rights, work-
ers’ rights, reproductive rights,
healthcare, and, yes, their voting
rights are at risk. For all of these rea-
sons, Judge Barrett is not only the
wrong nominee, but she comes at the
wrong time.
Now is not the time to rush a nomi-
nee onto the Court. Now, as millions
fill out their ballots, is not the time to
deprive the American people of a voice
in choosing the next President who will
choose the Supreme Court Justice.
Now is not the time for us to focus on
the immediate crisis at hand.
We need to act to save lives and to
protect families in Nevada and across
the country. We need that focus now on
what our families are dealing with be-
cause of this pandemic. That is why
our focus should be on passing another
comprehensive COVID–19 stimulus
package.
We need pandemic unemployment in-
surance for those who have been laid
off or furloughed, through no fault of
their own, and subsidized health cov-
erage for those workers. We need addi-
tional funds to address the health as-
pects of this pandemic—everything
from PPE to COVID–19 testing and
tracing, to funding to develop vaccines
and treatment. We need rental and
homeowner’s insurance to keep people
safe in their homes as winter ap-
proaches. Our small businesses need ex-
tended PPP so they can retain staff.
And many of our large industries need
support as well.
State, local, and Tribal governments
must have assistance so they can af-
ford to fund EMTs, police, firefighters,
and healthcare providers, not to men-
tion teachers who are reinventing edu-
cation on the fly.
All of these essential services are
keeping our communities safe and
functioning during this crisis.
I can keep going on and on with this
list, or I can just simply point my col-
leagues to the Heroes Act, which the
House passed months ago.
If Senator MCCONNELL really wanted
to get meaningful relief passed, he
would do it. We know he can move
quickly because we can see that with
this Supreme Court nominee.
If he would just come to the table
with Senators from both parties who
are eager to find a compromise to help
out their constituents, and he could
make that deal happen, that is what
should happen. Instead, he and the ma-
jority in this Chamber have decided to
fast-track this nominee. They have de-
cided the most important thing they
can do for this Nation during a once-in-
a-lifetime health crisis is to confirm a
Justice to the U.S. Supreme Court.
The cruelty and blindness to the real
needs of Americans is astounding to
me. Instead of working for our con-
stituents, Republican leadership has fo-
cused on a last-minute power grab that
threatens Americans’ health. I can’t
support that.
There is no reason to rush this nomi-
nee. There is every reason to act on a
comprehensive COVID–19 relief pack-
age. It is what we should have been
doing months ago.
My priority is and will continue to be
getting Nevadans comprehensive and
meaningful support that they need
right now.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BURR). The Senator from Pennsyl-
vania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to
speak about the nomination of Judge
Amy Coney Barrett to be an Associate
Justice on the U.S. Supreme Court.
That has been the subject of, I know, a
number of floor remarks tonight and
this morning.
We know that in terms of the history
of the nomination at this time before
an election, no person has ever been
confirmed this close—just days away
from a Presidential election—and no
election, of course, has had so many
votes cast this early. Fifty-nine mil-
lion is the last number I saw a couple
of hours ago. And this is all hap-
pening—this rushed confirmation proc-
ess—while people are voting, all while
Republicans here in the Senate are
ramming a nomination through and
not voting on a COVID–19 relief bill,
which should be the subject of our
work at this time, in my judgment, be-
cause of the nature of the pandemic,
the threat that it still poses, and the
relief that is needed all across the
country.
But as much as we focus, in this Su-
preme Court Justice nomination de-
bate, on this judge from the Seventh
Circuit Court of Appeals, ultimately, it
is really, in the end, not about her
nomination; in the end, it is about real
people’s lives, especially as to how the
Supreme Court will impact those lives,
those families, when it comes to the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act. That will be the focus of my re-
marks this morning.
This is a debate about people, and I
will talk about a few people from Penn-
sylvania in my time here on the floor,
people like Erin Gabriel, who is from
Beaver County, PA, right on the Ohio
border, way out in the western part of
our State. It is about Erin and her 11-
year-old daughter Abby, as well as
Shannon Striner. Shannon is from
Pittsburgh, just a little south of where
Erin is from.
I will be talking about Shannon and
her 4-year-old daughter, but I will start
with Erin Gabriel’s daughter Abby. I
will use this photograph to tell every-
one who Abby is. Abby is this child in
the middle. She is in this picture with
her brother and sister.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.317 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6511
October 25, 2020
Here is what Erin Gabriel said about
her daughter. She said:
My youngest daughter Abby just cele-
brated her 11th birthday last Saturday.
This is just in the month of October,
this month.
That was something that was never prom-
ised to us. Abby is growing up in her commu-
nity with her family and friends. Normally,
she enjoys shopping, going to the movies,
Disney on Ice. She travels. She swims at a
local lake, and she snuggles with her dog at
home, and she rides all the rides at
Idlewild—
Which is a local amusement park—
Abby is autistic, deaf, blind, nonverbal,
and has a rare progressive neurological syn-
drome affecting multiple organ systems,
with a long list of life-threatening symptoms
that we are all still trying to learn more
about.
Medically, Abby has to go through a lot.
She sees multiple specialists in Pittsburgh,
Cleveland, and Boston. She is undergoing
blood work to monitor her anemia and to
watch for signs of leukemia. She has regular
EEGs and MRIs to monitor the progress of
her seizures. She uses hearing aids and glass-
es and a wheelchair and a speech-generating
device. She relies on protections for people
with preexisting conditions, and she relies on
the ban on lifetime caps to access this care.
Without the Affordable Care Act, Abby
would be uninsurable.
Then Erin goes on to talk about the
benefit of living in Pennsylvania be-
cause of some extra protections that
Abby has. Then she continues:
Because she receives this care, Abby is
right now healthy, happy, and thriving. As
you might expect, Abby is considered very
high risk should she contract COVID–19.
Abby has not been inside any building that is
not our home or a hospital since March 10 of
this year. Summer vacations, play dates,
outings, travel plans to visit grandparents—
they have all been canceled. This fall, we
pulled Abby out of her school—a place that
had become community to her over the last
8 years—to homeschool her.
She, like many children with disabilities,
simply cannot access a virtual education,
and it is not safe to send her back into a
school building while this virus is spreading.
But Abby misses her school and her friends.
Normally, ongoing speech, occupational,
and physical therapy help Abby to keep the
progress she has made learning to walk, to
eat, swallow, and to communicate. But with
COVID–19, they have all come to a halt.
It is just not safe, and it has also provided
us a window into what her world looks like
without access to these therapies.
So that is just part of Abby’s story,
as told to us by her mom. As I made
reference to in the statement of her
mom, Erin wrote that Abby would be
‘‘uninsurable’’ without the ACA.
I have to ask: Are we really going to
say, again, that children like Abby are
uninsurable? Are we going to allow
that to happen in America? Is that the
intent of this whole exercise, the exer-
cise that has played out over years
now—years—of repeal efforts?
All of them so far have failed, so the
second strategy was to run cases up
through the judicial system, to get to
the Supreme Court, and then, ulti-
mately, to stack the Court with right-
wing justices who could then strike
down the Affordable Care Act. That is
what we are heading toward right now.
Is that America? Is that the America
we want—where we advance healthcare
to make sure families like Erin’s and
her daughter Abby have all the protec-
tion, all the coverage that she needs—
after all the progress that has been
made, instead of coming together and
saying that we are going to make im-
provements to our healthcare system
but we are going to grow the number of
people who are covered and we are
going to ensure that any child like
Abby has the protections that she
needs, that her family should have a
right to expect in the United States of
America, the most powerful, the
wealthiest country in the history of
the world?
Erin went on to say that, because she
receives this care, the care she is get-
ting now—largely because of the Af-
fordable Care Act, not to mention Med-
icaid: ‘‘Largely because she receives
this care, Abby is healthy, happy, and
thriving.’’
So I have to ask: What does justice
demand here? St. Augustine said hun-
dreds of years ago: ‘‘Without justice,
what are kingdoms but great bands of
robbers.’’
So any government—certainly our
government—that makes it possible for
a child to have those protections, those
programs, those services, the thera-
pies—and I could go on—and then takes
an action that could result—and if this
law is struck down by the Supreme
Court will result—in those benefits and
protections either to have been taken
away or to be threatened or under-
mined or compromised or limited—any
government which does that is robbing
that family of justice.
I mentioned earlier that Shannon’s
daughter Sienna is another example of
what we are talking about here. Here is
what Shannon says about Sienna, her
4-year-old daughter with Down syn-
drome. She says:
Sienna is a remarkable little girl that
loves life. She is a smiley, energetic, empa-
thetic ray of sunshine. Her favorite activity
is spending time with her big sister, whom
she adores. If we let her, she would watch
Sesame Street all day. Elmo is a way of life
in our house. She loves music, books, ther-
apy, and playing outside. She is mischievous,
funny, and beautiful. She has the ability to
bring smiles to our family on the worst of
days. We wouldn’t change one thing about
her.
Sienna happens to have an extra copy of
her 21st chromosome, also known as trisomy
21 or Down syndrome. Sienna’s diagnosis
came as a surprise to us. After enduring four
miscarriages, she was our miracle baby. Our
miracle baby surprised us on the day of her
birth with her diagnosis and a heart condi-
tion.
We were completely unprepared to raise a
child with a disability. After I delivered her,
a kind nurse explained to me how lucky we
were to have Sienna here in Pennsylvania
after passage of the Affordable Care Act.
Then she went on to talk about how
Pennsylvania had some benefits in
Medicaid. And then Shannon con-
tinues:
As I entered this new world of early inter-
vention, therapies, and medical needs, I
began to realize just how much of a financial
toll this would take on all of us if it weren’t
for the protections of the ACA and Medicaid:
custom orthotics, outpatient weekly thera-
pies, overnight hospital stays, adaptive
strollers, walkers, safety sleepers, echo-
cardiograms, communication devices, blood
work. The list goes on.
Sienna receives seven weekly therapies.
The cost of those alone are $3,400 per week.
Without the ACA, her therapies and medical
care would have quickly exceeded the life-
time cap, and Sienna would be uninsurable
for the rest of her life and left without access
to lifesaving care.
Shannon goes on:
I am proud to be Sienna’s mom. The jour-
ney is full of wonder, joy, and unimaginable
love. It changes life’s most ordinary mo-
ments into the extraordinary. But with con-
stant attacks on our healthcare, it is also
agonizing work, hard decisions, and constant
advocacy. It gets exhausting fighting for
your child, having to prove their value to the
world.
Then she goes on at the very end:
Once again, we as parents are forced to
suit up for battle and prove that our children
are worthy of healthcare.
Her last line of this statement is:
Everyone loses if our children are unable
to reach their fullest potential.
So that is Shannon talking about Si-
enna, her daughter. She used that same
word that Erin used. Different stories,
similar burdens, but she used that
same word that Erin used—‘‘uninsur-
able’’—uninsurable if the Affordable
Care Act is taken away.
She talks about life with the Afford-
able Care Act and without it. That is
what a lot of parents do when they
write to us. They tell us what their life
was like before the Affordable Care Act
and what their life is like now—and
what their life would return to, those
dark days when an insurance company
could make a determination about a
child’s insurance, their coverage, their
treatment—frankly, their life.
Then, toward the end, she talks
about what she and other parents feel
under these constant attacks, having
to prove their value, the value of their
child: We as parents are forced to suit
up for battle—suit up for battle—and
prove that our children are worthy of
healthcare.
I am going to ask the same question
again: In America? In America, that is
what we want to do—have this con-
stant battle? Parents have to come
here, to the U.S. Senate and to the
House?
The organization that this mom is a
part of is called Little Lobbyists. This
is a group for and because of the bat-
tles on healthcare. Why the hell is this
going on in America?
Why should we be fighting about
progress that has been made? Why
aren’t we talking about improvements,
getting the cost of healthcare down,
getting the cost of prescription drugs
down? Let’s make improvements.
Why do these parents have to contin-
ually battle to ensure that their chil-
dren have this kind of protection?
Should mothers really have to suit up
for battle in the United States of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.319 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6512 October 25, 2020
America, where the powerful get their
way all the time in this place?
They are different kinds of lobbyists
that come in. They are not Little Lob-
byists. They are not mothers and their
sons and daughters. They are a dif-
ferent kind of lobbyist. Corporations
did really well in the tax bill of 2017, a
bill that was rammed through between
Thanksgiving and Christmas.
What did they get? Well, they got
about a 14-point reduction in their cor-
porate tax rate—permanent tax relief,
jacked up the debt to do it—because
they have power.
I thought that was—when you com-
pare that action that the Senate took
at the time to what some in the Senate
want to do on healthcare, to roll back
the protections, to rip away protec-
tions for these children—and I am not
even talking tonight about the adults
who are impacted. But when you com-
pare those two actions, it is really per-
verse and disgusting that the powerful
get to come in here and get permanent
tax relief and get a bonanza the likes of
which we haven’t seen in modern
American history.
And all these parents are asking us
to do is preserve what we have. They
are not asking for anything more. They
are just saying: Please make sure my
child doesn’t lose their coverage.
Please make sure that they have the
therapies they need when they have
these complex medical needs, multiple
disabilities—not one, in many cases,
but multiple. That is all they are ask-
ing us to do.
That is why it is such an important
matter in the Supreme Court fight be-
cause you have to ask: Why the rush to
get this nominee through by election
day? That has never happened before
this close to an election.
Well, I will tell you why. This nomi-
nee is being fast-tracked, first of all,
because this nominee has been vetted
by the two groups that matter—the
Federalist Society and the Heritage
Foundation—both groups totally com-
mitted to undoing, striking down the
Affordable Care Act. So she has already
passed that test, and she apparently
passed with flying colors, as she moves
very quickly to a likely confirmation.
But why the fast-track to get there
in a matter of days? What is coming
up? Is it election day? No. There is a
date after the election; it is November
10. That is the argument date. They
know that, if she is not on the Supreme
Court, if she is not confirmed as a
member of the Court by the argument,
November 10, she can’t participate in
the decision.
What is the decision? The decision to
strike down the Affordable Care Act.
That is what it is—the decision that
really is the proxy for what did not
happen on the floor of the U.S. Senate
in July of 2017. When the repeal effort
failed and when it failed multiple times
in the House over many years, this is
the proxy for it. Litigate it, fund it,
and run that case right up the chain to
the Supreme Court.
So that is what this is about. They
want to make sure that she is on the
Court and at the argument so she can
be the deciding vote on the Affordable
Care Act. That is why we are rushing.
How about another healthcare issue?
How about Medicare? I mentioned Med-
icaid. How about Medicare, the pro-
gram that used to have bipartisan sup-
port all across the board?
Now, Judge Barrett was asked a di-
rect question about Medicare, and she
didn’t want to give an opinion on Medi-
care. She was asked it in the context of
the constitutionality of Medicare. And
a member of the Judiciary Committee,
Senator FEINSTEIN, asked her because
she referenced a law review article
questioning the constitutionality of
Medicare.
I think that is a loopy theory. I think
that is a theory that most Americans—
probably 90 percent of Americans—
don’t agree with, questioning the con-
stitutionality of Medicare, passed more
than 50 years ago. It has benefited tens
and tens and tens of millions of Ameri-
cans and still today benefits numbers
like that—45 million, roughly, I think
it is.
I understand why the judge doesn’t
want to say: Well, in this case that is
before the Court or this case that is un-
settled, I might have a—I can’t give
you a determination. But on Medicare
couldn’t she have at least said—instead
of mentioning, as she did in her an-
swer, the law professor’s name twice
who has this loopy theory on Medicare
constitutionality, couldn’t she have
said simply: Well, I can’t tell you how
I am going to rule on a Medicare case,
but I can tell you that, just like Brown
v. Board of Education is a superprece-
dent in a judicial sense, I think most
people would agree that Medicare is a
superprecedent in a legislative sense.
She wouldn’t have violated any prin-
ciple of not telling how you are going
to come down in a case. She could just
tell us or relate to us the reality that
most Americans believe about Medi-
care.
Now, I know there has been some
commentary about her law review arti-
cle that—or I should say her writings
about the 2012 Supreme Court case. We
know that the case she was referring to
was a 2012 case. So, in 2017, Judge Bar-
rett wrote an article about what Chief
Justice Roberts ruled in the case. She
wrote: ‘‘Chief Justice Roberts pushed
the Affordable Care Act beyond its
plausible meaning to save the statute.’’
In light of her frequent criticism of
the act, the Affordable Care Act, Sen-
ator LEAHY of Vermont asked her dur-
ing her confirmation hearing whether
she had ever written or spoken in favor
of the law. She has not. So that is what
she was writing in 2017.
I have to ask: If she felt so strongly
about the 2012 decision by the Court
and the position of Justice Roberts, she
didn’t seem to write much about it for
a couple years—until 2017, when you
had a new President. And what fol-
lowed a few months later was she was
nominated in the circuit court of ap-
peals. So that is curious.
But what we know is that the Presi-
dent who nominated her, President
Trump, certainly wants to strike down
the Affordable Care Act. In fact, in
May he said he wanted to ‘‘terminate
healthcare’’ under the Affordable Care
Act.
We know the impact of that. That de-
struction, the act of striking down the
Affordable Care Act, would harm tens
of millions of Americans. In Pennsyl-
vania, 51⁄2 million people with a pre-
existing condition would be affected.
Over 840,000 Pennsylvanians who are
enrolled in Medicaid expansion would
be, of course, adversely impacted. So
that is the reality of what we are talk-
ing about with regard to this nomina-
tion.
I will make reference to one more
family before I conclude my remarks.
It is the Kovacs family from—also from
Western Pennsylvania, Plum Borough,
PA, in Allegheny County, not too far
from Pittsburgh. The Kovacs’ 11-year-
old son Thomas is blind and has mul-
tiple disabilities. He has epilepsy,
microencephaly, and intellectual dis-
abilities.
His mom, Jessica, says the Afford-
able Care Act has made all of their
lives better: ‘‘The ACA has made it
possible for Thomas to receive therapy
services at his school, Center Elemen-
tary School in Plum Borough.’’
The ACA has given his parents the
option to change jobs and advance in
their careers without fear of not being
able to obtain health coverage for him
because of his preexisting conditions.
And they don’t need to worry about
busting through lifetime expense caps
and losing coverage for Thomas. The
ACA has brought peace of mind and
comfort to their family because they
know that he is protected by the essen-
tial healthcare benefits the law pro-
vides.
Striking down the ACA isn’t only
about the essential health benefits. It
is about a lot more than that.
There is so much more that I could
talk about tonight, so many more ex-
amples, but I will conclude with that
and just make one final comment.
When I think about what could happen
and what is likely to happen if Judge
Barrett is confirmed and becomes a
member of the Court, participates in
the argument on November 10, and
then because of that participation is
allowed to, as a member of the Court,
to rule on this ACA case, it is highly
likely that the Affordable Care Act will
be wiped out.
I have to ask about the fate of Abby
and Sienna and so many other children
like them all across our Common-
wealth and all across the country. I
think often in government we must
ask, here in the U.S. Senate or in the
House or in the other branch of govern-
ment—the judicial branch or in any
branch of government, the executive,
legislative, or judicial branches—we
should all ask ourselves, Is this action
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.321 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6513
October 25, 2020
I am taking or is this policy or pro-
gram advancing the cause of justice or
not?
I would submit that striking down
the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act by virtue of a Supreme Court
decision is not only the wrong policy,
it is a giant step backwards in the in-
terests of justice. Justice demands that
these children have these protections;
that these protections are not under-
mined, they are not compromised, and
they are not taken away by judicial
fiat.
This nomination threatens the
healthcare of children like Abby and
Sienna right now—right now in the
United States of America, where we ad-
vanced into the light of protection for
those children. When you consider
what is at stake right now, it is that
case. I think it is potentially the most
important case the Court will decide in
the next quarter century. That is the
impact of it.
Very few Americans are not directly
affected by this case, either because
they are affected by way of loss of cov-
erage or they are affected because of
the scope of the protections that were
brought about by the passage of the Af-
fordable Care Act, the enactment of it.
A lot is at stake, not to mention so
many other issues and so many other
matters that will come before the
Court. For that reason and several oth-
ers, I will be voting against the nomi-
nation of Judge Barrett to be on the
Supreme Court.
If I have an opportunity between now
and the vote, I will outline some other
reasons why. But for purposes of to-
night, this morning, I wanted to talk
about children like Abby and Sienna
and their moms. The moms, Erin and
Shannon, should have the peace of
mind that has come with the protec-
tions of the Affordable Care Act.
With that, I will yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
want to start by thanking my friend
and colleague, the Senator from Penn-
sylvania, for talking this evening
about what is at stake for so many of
his constituents with this Supreme
Court nomination and the very real
possibility that the Affordable Care
Act will be struck down and what that
means to so many of his constituents.
I do think this is a moment where we
need to reflect and take stock of where
we are as a country on many fronts. We
are in the middle of a global pandemic.
We just saw the highest single day of
new reported cases on Friday. Millions
of Americans are unemployed and wor-
ried about how they are going to pay
their rent and how they are going to
pay for their medications.
We are here at a time when a Repub-
lican-led lawsuit to strike down the Af-
fordable Care Act, supported by Presi-
dent Trump and his Department of Jus-
tice, is scheduled for a fateful hearing
in the Supreme Court on November
10—1 week after the upcoming election.
We are here in the wake of the
killings of Black men, like George
Floyd, and Black women, like Breonna
Taylor, which sent throngs of pro-
testers into the streets across the
country to rightly demand greater po-
lice accountability and racial justice.
We gather here as wildfires in the
West and hurricanes in the South dem-
onstrate with deadly and destructive
voracity the accelerating and dan-
gerous consequences of climate change.
We meet as voters are filling out mail-
in ballots as early as they can to make
sure that the Postal Service, which
this administration has deliberately
slowed down, can get their ballots de-
livered on time so that they can be
counted and as voters stand in long
lines, with their masks, 6 feet apart, to
cast their ballots in the early vote.
At this moment, this country is fac-
ing all these pressing issues, but as I
come here this evening or early this
morning, we are not considering solu-
tions to any of those critical and ur-
gent issues, not a single one. Instead,
we are blowing up the precedent that
the Senate Republican leader and other
Republican Senators themselves estab-
lished 4 years ago and considering a
Supreme Court nominee closer in time
to the Presidential election than ever
before in American history, as millions
of Americans have already have al-
ready cast their ballots.
We are blowing up this Republican
Senate established precedent and rac-
ing toward a nomination that will turn
the clock back, take us backwards on
all of those pressing issues that I just
outlined. But sadly, I suppose none of
us should be surprised that we are fo-
cused here on another judicial nomina-
tion at the expense of focusing on legis-
lation to advance and address the in-
terests of the American people on so
many front-burner pressing issues.
Indeed, as I reflect on the last
months and years, just about the only
thing this Republican Senate has done
is pass nominations. Week after week,
we ignore our job as legislators in favor
of an agenda of rubberstamping, blind-
ly supporting whatever nominee this
President puts forward. In many cases,
it hasn’t even mattered if a judicial
nomination is qualified, if they have
even tried a case. Our Republican Sen-
ate colleagues have abandoned any
principles they claim to hold with re-
spect to our Judiciary Committee.
When President Obama was in office,
those Republican Senators who were
here in this Chamber erected a wall of
opposition to scores of his nominees,
refused to even consider many of them.
They outright rejected President
Obama’s efforts to fill seats on the DC
Circuit, the court just below the Su-
preme Court.
Republican Senators at the time
claimed that it wasn’t necessary to fill
those vacancies. They rejected quali-
fied nominees up and down the bench,
denying simple consideration and with-
holding blue slips. It was a deliberate
effort to stonewall President Obama’s
judicial nominees. In fact, they re-
jected a highly-qualified nominee for
the very seat Judge Amy Coney Bar-
rett currently holds. President Obama
nominated Myra Selby for the Seventh
Circuit in January of 2016. She had
served on the Indiana Supreme Court
and would have been the first African-
American and first woman from Indi-
ana on that circuit.
Senate Republicans—what did they
do? Didn’t even give her a hearing.
Then, 1 month later, February 2016,
Justice Scalia passes away. President
Obama nominates Merrick Garland to
the Supreme Court, a good and very
fair judge who had been confirmed to
the DC Circuit by a Republican-con-
trolled Senate by a vote of 76 to 23.
What did Senate Republicans do? They
refused to consider the nomination.
They said, February—February of
2016, February of that election—was
simply too close to a Presidential elec-
tion to fill the slot. The American peo-
ple should have a voice, they said. Let
the people choose a President this year
and then that President, whomever
that may be, make the nomination to
the Supreme Court.
Not only did Senate Republicans op-
pose Merrick Garland, they refused to
meet with him. They refused to hold a
hearing. This is February 2016. The
American people should have a voice.
It is a Presidential election year, they
said, 8 months—8 months—before that
November 2016 election was just too
close.
And yet, here we are today, 4 years
later, 8 days—not 8 months, 8 days—
from the beginning of the last day of
this Presidential election, November 3.
Over 50 million ballots are already
cast, and suddenly, there is nothing
more important than rushing to fill the
Supreme Court vacancy—not respond-
ing to a global pandemic.
And we just learned from a very rep-
utable Columbia University study that
had this administration acted and fol-
lowed the advice of healthcare experts,
we could have saved at least 130,000
American lives—up to 220,000 American
lives. But here we are, taking no more
meaningful action, not giving a lifeline
to people who are out of work, through
no fault of their own; not closing the
digital divide so children who can’t go
to school because of COVID can access
their classes; not reforming our justice
and policing system to make sure that
everyone, no matter the color of their
skin, is protected and treated equally;
not securing our elections against for-
eign attacks and interference.
Just a few days ago, I was right here
on the Senate floor, asking this Senate
to take up what had been a bipartisan
piece of legislation called the DETER
Act. I introduced it years ago with
Senator RUBIO, after we learned of the
Russian interference in 2016. We want-
ed to make sure that we send a clear
message in advance of the 2020 election
that if we catch the Russians or any
other adversaries interfering in our
election, this time, there will be a swift
and certain price to pay.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.322 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6514 October 25, 2020
Just earlier this past week, we got
not surprising news from the DNI that,
yes, what we have known all along, the
Russians are interfering, other adver-
saries are interfering, and yet we
couldn’t even take up the bipartisan
bill to send a clear message to Putin
and others because the Trump adminis-
tration continues to oppose it and the
Senate Republican leader continues to
bury it here in U.S. Senate.
No response to global pandemic of
meaningful note at this point, nothing
to do on justice and policing, nothing
to secure our elections. No, the top pri-
ority has been to jettison the precedent
that our Republican colleagues them-
selves established under President
Obama 4 years ago and rush to confirm
a Supreme Court Justice.
Why? Why this 180-degree turn-
around? After all, it is not as if our
Senate Republican colleagues have al-
ways been so worried about an eight-
person Supreme Court. They kept the
Supreme Court to eight Justices for a
year—for a full year—when they re-
fused to consider Merrick Garland’s
nomination. Some of our Senate Re-
publican colleagues praised the idea of
only having eight Justices on the Su-
preme Court forever if Hillary Clinton
had won the Presidency in 2016. So
what is different this time around?
Well, as we have been hearing on the
floor of the Senate and from the Presi-
dent himself, there are a number of ir-
resistible opportunities—at least irre-
sistible for our President and the Re-
publican colleagues—things they have
been trying to do for years and have
not succeeded yet in doing.
First, they can pack the Court—pack
the Court with increasingly ideological
and rightwing Justices to align the
very top Court—the Supreme Court—
with the increasingly ideological right-
wing judiciary they have been creating
over years, first by stonewalling and
blocking President Obama’s nominees
and then fast-tracking them for Presi-
dent Trump’s nominees.
Second, they can achieve another
goal that they have been striving for,
for a decade: overturning the Afford-
able Care Act. Ten years ago—I was a
Member of the House of Representa-
tives at the time—Republicans did ev-
erything—I mean, everything they
could—to block passage of the Afford-
able Care Act to stop ObamaCare. We
heard outright lies about it. They said
it was going to cause massive job loss.
They said that the government would
be picking your doctor. They said a
government panel would decide wheth-
er your grandparents lived or died.
They called them death panels. None of
it was true. None of it has come true.
The first part of the Affordable Care
Act was signed into law on March 23,
2010. On that very day, House Repub-
licans filed a bill to repeal it outright.
Also, on that same day, the first Re-
publican lawsuits were filed against it.
That two-pronged approach—trying to
undo it legislatively and trying to undo
it through the courts—continued for
the next decade, dozens of votes in the
House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate to attempt to repeal the law and
dozens of Republican attorneys general
and special interests filing lawsuits to
challenge it in the courts. They failed.
They failed in the Congress. And so far,
they have failed in the courts.
In the courts, in 2012, the Roberts
Court upheld the constitutionality of
the Affordable Care Act in a 5-to-4 deci-
sion in one of the very first cases that
had been filed against the law. It
wasn’t a complete victory for the Af-
fordable Care Act. It did make Med-
icaid expansion optional. And a number
of Republican-held States refused to
implement that unless and until voters
demanded it at the ballots. But that
Supreme Court decision did uphold the
central tenets of the Affordable Care
Act.
The Supreme Court upheld the ACA
again in a 6-to-3 decision in 2015. But
that hasn’t stopped the Republican
Party’s quest to eliminate it entirely.
Just look at the 2016 Republican Party
platform where they continued the at-
tack with three strategies.
First, President Trump: ‘‘With the
unanimous support of Congressional
Republicans, will sign its repeal.’’
Second, while working to legisla-
tively repeal it, the President would
use his administrative authority to un-
dermine, weaken, and sabotage it.
Third, the President would appoint
Justices to reverse past decisions, in-
cluding the Affordable Care Act deci-
sions made by the Supreme Court.
That was the three-pronged plan.
Well, they ran into problems with the
first part of the plan because despite
President Trump’s campaign promise
to convene a special session of Con-
gress to ‘‘immediately repeal and re-
place ObamaCare very, very quickly’’—
despite that pledge—our Republican
colleagues soon realized they had no
replacement plan. They promised that
they could repeal the Affordable Care
Act and replace it with something
much, much better and less expensive,
but there was no real plan. There was
no ‘‘there’’ there, and the idea they of-
fered to the American people was to
trade healthcare for millions of Ameri-
cans for tax breaks for the very rich.
Tens of millions of Americans would
have lost access to affordable
healthcare. People with preexisting
conditions would have lost protections,
deductibles, and copays would have
gotten more expensive. Insurance com-
panies would have been able to get tax
breaks on the bonuses they gave to
their CEOs. That is what was in the Re-
publican replacement plan—giving tax
breaks to companies for the bonuses
they pay to their CEOs.
Not surprisingly, they couldn’t sell it
to the American people, and I think we
all recall here, in 2017, it dramatically
failed by one vote in the U.S. Senate.
Every Democratic Senator voting
against destroying the Affordable Care
Act, three Republicans joining us, in-
cluding, of course, Senator McCain giv-
ing it a big thumbs down.
Republicans have been a little more
successful trying to sabotage the law
through the Trump administration’s
Executive authorities by scaling back
outreach for enrollment plans.
What does that mean? That means
don’t tell the public about what oppor-
tunities they have to get healthcare
coverage in the Affordable Care Act.
We just won’t provide as much public
information so people won’t know
about it, and then they won’t be able to
sign up for it; also, by ending cost-
sharing in an attempt to destabilize
the healthcare exchanges and allowing
more junk health plans that don’t offer
critical benefits or protections, the
kind of plans we used to see when peo-
ple thought that they had coverage,
and then, when they really needed it,
they suddenly discovered, no, in the
fine print, it just wasn’t there.
But despite these efforts by the ad-
ministration, the law has survived. All
their efforts to slash it with 100 cuts, it
continues to provide affordable cov-
erage to millions of Americans, and, in
many States, including mine in Mary-
land, they have taken efforts to try to
protect the Affordable Care Act from
the Trump administration’s attacks.
But on November 10, when the Su-
preme Court hears that Affordable Care
Act case, all of that could change.
They could decide, after upholding it
on two separate occasions, that now
they have got another Supreme Court
Justice, we are going to strike it down.
And make no mistake, Donald Trump
wants this law overturned. I mean, no
one should be under any illusions about
that. You can take it from the word of
the brief—the legal brief filed by the
Solicitor General of the United States
on behalf of the Trump administration.
It is the country’s lawyer before the
Supreme Court.
He filed a case and said that the en-
tire law ‘‘must fall.’’ The entire law
must fall. Not one piece of it or an-
other piece, the entire law must fall.
That is the position of the Trump ad-
ministration. You can listen to Presi-
dent Trump back in May of this year.
We are in the middle of a pandemic,
when he said: ‘‘We want to terminate
healthcare under ObamaCare.’’
You can listen to him just this week
on ‘‘60 Minutes.’’ It aired tonight, and
he tweeted out to make sure everyone
could see it just in case they missed
the show. President Trump said of the
Supreme Court’s ACA case: ‘‘I hope
that they end it—it’ll be so good if
they end it.’’ That is President Trump.
It will be so good if they—the Supreme
Court—end the Affordable Care Act.
That has been his plan from the Su-
preme Court from the start.
In 2015, when he was running, he said:
‘‘If I win the presidency, my judicial
appointments will do the right thing
unlike Bush’s appointee John Roberts
on ObamaCare.’’ Candidate Trump
hasn’t changed his tune. And he has
found his nominee in Amy Coney Bar-
rett, who has publicly criticized past
Supreme Court decisions on the Afford-
able Care Act. She is President
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.323 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6515
October 25, 2020
Trump’s torpedo aimed at fulfilling his
pledge to destroy the Affordable Care
Act.
She criticized the decision in NFIB v.
Sebelius, saying that Chief Justice
Roberts’ argument ‘‘pushed the Afford-
able Care Act beyond it plausible
meaning to save the statute.’’ She ap-
plauded the dissent in King v. Burwell,
saying that they had ‘‘the better of the
legal argument.’’
So it is no wonder that Republican
Senators who tried unsuccessfully to
defeat the Affordable Care Act legisla-
tively in 2017 are now rushing to ap-
point her before that case is heard 1
week after the election.
The stakes could not be higher for
the American people. I want everybody
to think back to the days before we
had the Affordable Care Act. Back
then, if you had a preexisting health
condition, companies could deny you
coverage outright. If you didn’t have
the coverage, you might otherwise be
offered it at a price that you couldn’t
possibly afford—outrageously expen-
sive. Instead of denying it outright, we
will offer you that coverage, but you
have got a preexisting health condi-
tion, so we are going to charge you
something that you can’t possibly af-
ford and so you can’t buy it.
If you did have coverage and then de-
veloped a health issue, you would be
locked into your current plan no mat-
ter how high the costs arose, unable to
shop around because of what had be-
come a preexisting condition. It is
called job lock. You have to stay in a
job even if you have a better oppor-
tunity or you want to pursue your
dreams because you now have a pre-
existing health condition and you can’t
get coverage elsewhere.
One Marylander, Angela, wrote to me
about her daughter Rachel, who was di-
agnosed with epilepsy when she was in
8th grade. She had to take expensive
medications, which she can afford
thanks to the Affordable Care Act.
Here is what Rachel’s mother wrote:
She now has a lifetime preexisting condi-
tion. If she were to be kicked off her
healthcare, I imagine she would be bank-
rupted having to pay full costs of the medi-
cations that help her be a productive mem-
ber of society.
Rachel is a teacher, and her mother
Angela says: ‘‘It is because of
ObamaCare that she is able to be where
she is today.’’
Another constituent, Megan, wrote
to me that she turned 26 on the Thursday
that the Senate Republicans on the Judici-
ary Committee reported out the Barrett
nomination. She turned 26 just last Thurs-
day. She has asthma. She pays $60 a month
for her medications. And here is what she
wrote to me:
If I lost my job or my insurance. . . . I
would have to make a choice between my
medicine or paying the electric bill on time.
And she ended her note to me with
the following:
For my 26th birthday, my only wish is that
the Affordable Care Act not be overturned.
There are so many people like me, Ameri-
cans with preexisting conditions, that de-
pend on this crucial legislation that provides
necessary protection and guarantees that
they will stay covered no matter what.
That is what Megan wrote.
And before the Affordable Care Act,
women could be charged more just be-
cause they were women. Being a
woman was a preexisting condition
that allowed insurance companies to
charge more. It is also true that before
the Affordable Care Act, if you had a
catastrophic accident or a long-term
health issue, you would hit a coverage
gap and be bankrupted by millions of
dollars in hospital bills. There were no
annual caps and no lifetime caps.
Sometimes that meant that people
wouldn’t go to the hospital or see a
doctor because they didn’t want to face
unending, uncapped bills. That is what
would have happened to another con-
stituent of mine, Robin, if she did not
have the Affordable Care Act.
She wrote:
I am 64.
So she is not yet 65, so she is not cov-
ered by Medicare.
I am 64, took a tumble at home. My older
son urged me to go to the emergency room
due to my family health history. I was kept
in the hospital due to a low thyroid level and
almost non-existent potassium level among
other problems. I would not have recovered if
I did not have [the] ACA. I would not have
health insurance and I know I could not pay
a hospital bill, so I would not go to the emer-
gency room. I would have died. [The Afford-
able Care Act] saved my life.
Before the Affordable Care Act, if
you were a recent college graduate but
you hadn’t found a job with health in-
surance yet, you couldn’t stay auto-
matically on your parents’ health in-
surance policy. You were on your own,
out of luck, young people thinking
they are invincible until they are not.
Insurance companies could deny cov-
erage to them, and now they can’t.
I heard from one Marylander who
worries about his son’s future if this
particular provision is taken away. He
wrote to me:
If the ACA is overturned and we lose the
coverage for my son on my policy, this would
be a disaster for my son and for my family.
. . . I would hate to see him have to drop out
of school just to find a job to cover health in-
surance—this would destroy his future. And
we don’t have—
He continued to write—
the extra $5,000 or so a year lying around
that would be required for him to have a pol-
icy under our current provider that would
cover his preexisting conditions. My son
could be one of the millions to lose health in-
surance if the Republicans have their way.
This provision of the Affordable Care
Act has been lifesaving for Pamela’s
family. She wrote:
This year, my 23-year-old daughter was di-
agnosed with stage 3 breast cancer.
Stage 3 breast cancer.
Thanks to the [Affordable Care Act] she is
still on our insurance. Even with our insur-
ance, she will be in debt for a very long time.
Without it she would be dead. I have not
heard a single Republican guarantee this will
be in any bill they propose.
It is also a fact that before the Af-
fordable Care Act, you had to pay for
annual checkups and preventive cov-
erage like breast cancer screenings. It
is also a fact that if you want to quit
your job to start a small business, you
had to figure out how you would pay
for an expensive health plan, which
might not provide very good coverage
on the individual market.
Another Marylander, who had a lump
in her breast that was treated as a pre-
existing condition even after it dis-
appeared, decided she had to limit her
employment options to those with de-
cent health insurance before the ACA
was enacted. She wrote:
This experience steered me to work only
for employers large enough to offer stable,
subsidized healthcare insurance. . . . The
downside has been the golden handcuffs. It is
important to have universal decent
healthcare coverage to encourage small busi-
nesses, nonprofits, and entrepreneurs.
Kathleen from Maryland decided to
leave an office job to find something
that suited her better, but the job she
took in the restaurant industry didn’t
offer any medical coverage. She wrote:
I developed adult-onset asthma, more than
once resorting to the ERs or Urgent Care. I
searched everywhere I knew for medical in-
surance but was refused, either because I was
just an individual and/or because I now had
a ‘‘pre-existing condition.’’ Knowing nothing
about asthma treatment, and unable to
cover medical bills entirely on my own, I was
chronically ill, and more than once almost
died.
She had to rely on friends and family
for help, and after 10 years without in-
surance, she finally found a job with
coverage. Kathleen wrote:
We ALL need medical coverage, ALL the
time, no matter your employment status.
The Affordable Care Act dramati-
cally expanded Medicaid in many
States—those that opted to partici-
pate—providing subsidies for low-in-
come Americans to find affordable
plans and gave small business tax cred-
its for providing health insurance for
their employees. It also closed the pre-
scription drug doughnut hole for sen-
iors on Medicare.
A lot of people forget, seniors on
Medicare benefited from the Affordable
Care Act and continue to benefit. That
is part of the law that the Trump ad-
ministration is trying to overturn in
its entirety. These are seniors who
have faced a big coverage gap from the
initial spending threshold, and on the
other side of the doughnut hole, cata-
strophic spending—a big doughnut
hole.
In 2016, the most recent years where
we have complete data, close to 5 mil-
lion seniors on Medicare received an
average of over $1,000 in Part D pre-
scription discounts because the dough-
nut hole was closed. Another 46 million
seniors are on Part D Medicare today.
If any of them all of a sudden develop
a condition that requires high drug
costs, any of those 46 million Ameri-
cans could fall into that doughnut
hole, costing them as much as $3,000
more per year.
Now, the Affordable Care Act isn’t a
perfect law, but it did set a key stand-
ard for essential health benefits, cut
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.324 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6516 October 25, 2020
the rate of uninsured Americans, and
started improving healthcare outcomes
for Americans. And, right now, while
we are in the middle of the COVID–19
pandemic, it is more important than
ever.
The United States has had over 8.6
million COVID–19 cases, a number that
we see grow by the day. For patients
who require hospitalization, the Kaiser
Family Foundation reports that the
average stay can cost more than $20,000
a person and rise to closer to $90,000 if
the patient requires a ventilator.
So what would happen to those
Americans if they are once again sub-
jected to a lifetime out-of-pocket limit
on their insurance coverage where they
are not protected against huge expendi-
tures?
We are all glad that when President
Trump got COVID, he got world-class
care. It is a good thing. We are glad he
got airlifted to Walter Reed in Mary-
land. It is a great national military
medical facility. We are glad he had a
team of doctors devoted to his case. We
are glad he got access to cutting-edge
drugs. He won’t have to pay for that
coverage.
But that is not the kind of treatment
every other American gets, and it is of-
fensive for the President to relish his
first-class treatment while denying his
fellow Americans simple protections,
as he would, by calling for the destruc-
tion of the Affordable Care Act.
Speaking of COVID–19 and the im-
pact of preexisting conditions, we are
seeing many COVID–19 patients who
have long-term health effects. They
call them the ‘‘long-haulers.’’ The CDC
noted last month that COVID–19 can
have an impact on the heart, including
heart damage that can lead to long-
term symptoms like shortness of
breath, chest pain, and heart palpita-
tions.
An article this month in the Harvard
Medical School Health Blog notes that
COVID can damage the brain, causing
cognitive effects comparable to those
who have suffered traumatic brain in-
jury.
So while Senate Republicans have re-
fused to take meaningful action to con-
front the next step of COVID–19 relief,
including refusing to pass a strong
testing and tracing plan to halt the
spread of the virus as proposed in the
Heroes Act—both 1 and 2—from the
House of Representatives, they are
pushing for a nominee to take the Af-
fordable Care Act away from the Amer-
ican people who have gotten sick, and
now up to 8.6 million of them have a
preexisting condition due to COVID–19.
But they will no longer be protected
from that preexisting condition if the
Affordable Care Act goes away.
This isn’t crying wolf. I want to re-
mind everybody again, the Solicitor
General of the United States, acting on
behalf of the President of the United
States, wrote in his brief supporting
the case for the Affordable Care Act
that the entire law—the entire law,
coverage for preexisting conditions,
closing the Medicare doughnut hole,
and ending lifetime limits for care—
‘‘must fall.’’ All of it ‘‘must fall.’’
We know President Trump has no
plan to replace it. He has had plenty of
time to present one. For years, he kept
telling us: It is going to be a matter of
weeks. Four years after his inaugura-
tion: It is going to be a matter of
weeks. Two years ago: It is a matter of
weeks. Three years ago: It is a matter
of weeks.
He was asked about it in the last de-
bate. He said don’t worry. He is going
to come up with ‘‘a brand new, beau-
tiful health [plan].’’
Women’s health, in particular, is in
jeopardy with this nomination. Not
only do women stand to lose the Af-
fordable Care Act protections against
discrimination—because before that, as
I said, just being a woman was a pre-
existing condition that would and
could cost you more—they will no
longer have access to the guarantee of
precancer screenings for breast cancer
and other screenings. But it is also a
fact that President Trump and Repub-
licans have long sought to deny them
reproductive health freedom.
That brings us to another longtime
priority of President Trump and Sen-
ate Republicans—putting a Justice on
the Supreme Court who will provide a
majority to strike down a woman’s
right to reproductive choice in accord-
ance with the Roe v. Wade decision.
The Roe v. Wade decision was 7 to 2
in the Supreme Court. It was founded
on the right to privacy, that a woman’s
healthcare choice was her own, without
interference from the State, in accord-
ance with the Roe v. Wade framework.
Before Roe v. Wade, when abortion
was illegal in most States, unsafe abor-
tions caused one-sixth of all preg-
nancy-related deaths. Many low-in-
come women jeopardized their lives
with self-induced procedures.
Now, women have safe options, both
to obtain abortions and also, thanks to
the Affordable Care Act, no-cost con-
traception that is used both to plan
families and manage a variety of
health conditions. Women can make
decisions about their own bodies, in
consultation with their doctors, that
are best for their health and the well-
being of their families.
The vast majority of Americans sup-
port comprehensive healthcare, includ-
ing a woman’s right to reproductive
choice under Roe v. Wade, but there
has been a long fight chipping away at
this protection, this care, with the ul-
timate goal of overturning Roe v. Wade
altogether.
Overturning that case has been one
of President Trump’s litmus tests for
this Supreme Court nominee and his
other picks. Like the Affordable Care
Act, it is not like he has been subtle
about this.
In a Presidential debate in 2016, he
was asked if he wanted the Supreme
Court to overturn Roe v. Wade. He
said:
Well, if we put another two or perhaps
three justices on, that’s really what’s going
to be—that will happen. And that will hap-
pen automatically, in my opinion, because I
am putting pro-life judges on the court.
There it is. This would be President
Trump’s third Supreme Court nomi-
nee—the magic number he talked
about for overturning Roe v. Wade and
a woman’s protected right to choose
under the Constitution of the United
States. This comes on top of the more
than 60 judges with anti-choice records
whom he has already nominated and
the Senate has confirmed to the lower
courts.
More States are passing laws to dras-
tically limit or effectively ban abor-
tion in order to set up cases to chal-
lenge Roe v. Wade in the courts, to set
up those cases to take to the Supreme
Court.
Again, as with his intention to over-
turn the Affordable Care Act, President
Trump has found the perfect nominee
to overturn Roe v. Wade in Judge Bar-
rett.
We don’t have to rely on the Presi-
dent’s words alone or on all the anti-
choice groups who have vigorously lob-
bied for her appointment and who have
said that she ‘‘believes that Roe v.
Wade is something that can be re-
versed.’’ That is what all the advocacy
groups supporting her nomination are
saying. One of our Republican Senate
colleagues said he absolutely will never
vote for a Justice who has not shown
that they believe Roe v. Wade was
wrongly decided and has told us that
Judge Barrett ‘‘certainly would meet
that standard.’’
Just as we can see Judge Barrett’s
opposition to the Affordable Care Act
in her own record, we can see her oppo-
sition to Roe v. Wade in her own
record. She signed on to an advertise-
ment calling Roe v. Wade ‘‘an exercise
of raw judicial power’’ that advocated
for ending ‘‘the barbaric legacy of Roe
v. Wade.’’ That is what she said.
She signed another advertisement
criticizing Roe v. Wade when she was a
member of Notre Dame’s University
Faculty for Life, an anti-choice group.
She has said that Roe v. Wade is not
settled precedent.
Indeed, at her hearing in the Senate,
she questioned the principle that the
Constitution protects certain funda-
mental rights from government inter-
ference on privacy grounds, saying that
there is a debate about how far that
can go—a debate that is generally
waged by those looking to overturn
Roe v. Wade and Obergefell, the case
that allows for gay marriage.
She would not even concede—and
this is very telling—she would not even
concede in her hearing that the deci-
sion in Griswold v. Connecticut was
settled law. Griswold v. Connecticut is
the case that protects access to contra-
ceptives. There was a Connecticut law
on the books that prohibited any per-
son from using contraception, and the
Court invalidated that law in a 7-to-2
decision on the grounds that it violated
marital privacy.
I want our colleagues to think about
this. This is a State law that said that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.325 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6517
October 25, 2020
adults could not use contraception, and
she would not say that is settled law
under the Constitution of the United
States. She would not even concede
that in vitro fertilization, which has
helped many women start their fami-
lies, was constitutional and could not
be made illegal.
It is clear from President Trump’s
stated intentions from the words of
anti-choice groups, the promise of our
own colleagues, and from Judge
Barrett’s own words that her nomina-
tion is the culmination of a decades-
long effort to overturn a woman’s right
to choose.
We also see that with respect to the
decision in Obergefell v. Hodges. On
that day in 2015, the Supreme Court
showed us what it could be—a body
that would ensure, rather than restrict,
the rights of Americans. In a 5-to-4 de-
cision, it told LGBTQ Americans that
the love they had for each other and
their wish to declare that love in mar-
riage was their right, as it has been for
straight couples for the whole history
of our Nation. Five years later, the
American people support this decision
at record-high levels. But that was a 5-
to-4 decision, and we are now facing a
fundamental shift in the balance of the
Court, and we have seen time and again
this President attack laws designed to
protect people against discrimination
based on sexual orientation.
We also see this not just from the ad-
ministration but, again, through Judge
Barrett’s own words and actions. She
received an honorarium to teach at a
program run by the Alliance Defending
Freedom, which the Southern Poverty
Law Center has categorized as a hate
group for its efforts to prohibit same-
sex marriage and recriminalize homo-
sexuality, and she called the experi-
ence ‘‘a wonderful one.’’ She has re-
ferred to sexual orientation as a ‘‘sex-
ual preference,’’ which are the buzz
words used by those who want to over-
turn LGBTQ rights on the grounds that
this is not a question of ‘‘immutable
characteristic’’ but simply someone’s
chosen preference.
There are a number of cases coming
to the Supreme Court that deal with
the issue of discrimination against fos-
ter families headed by same-sex cou-
ples. One will arrive at the Court on
November 4, the day after the elec-
tion—another reason you see this nom-
ination being rushed.
If you look through the issues I out-
lined at the start—from racial justice
and police accountability, to other
questions on the ability to access
healthcare—you will find time and
again in Judge Barrett’s record telltale
signs and clear signs—flashing warning
signs—that she wants to turn back the
clock.
We see that with respect to criminal
justice reform, where she dissented in a
case on whether a defendant who had
been convicted but not yet sentenced
when the First Step Act was enacted
by this Congress and signed by the
President—as to whether the new sen-
tencing requirements of that law would
apply. Fortunately, the Seventh Cir-
cuit ruled 9 to 3 that the First Step Act
applied to the defendant. Judge Barrett
was one of the three dissenting votes
who adopted a cramped interpretation
of the law devoid of any mercy.
There are other cases relating to the
rights of those who have been injured,
including a pregnant teenager who was
repeatedly sexually assaulted by a pris-
on guard, where Judge Barrett found
that the prison guard could not be held
liable under his employment with the
prison system. If you read through that
case and the horrifying facts, I think
you come away very troubled with the
fact that she had such a cramped read-
ing of the law.
On a question that is not a legal mat-
ter but a matter of fact—climate
change—we would have thought that
the question that was put to her was
quite easy. Judge Barrett admitted
that the coronavirus was infectious.
Why? Because that is what the medical
experts say. But when she was asked
about climate change—again, not a
tricky, legal question—she refused to
say what the overwhelming scientific
consensus is—that climate change is
real. We see it, as I said, with the for-
est fires. We see it with the hurricanes.
We see it in my State of Maryland, just
in the city of Annapolis, the home of
the Naval Academy. We see flooding at
our docks that is wreaking havoc on
local businesses.
Time and again, when Judge Barrett
was given an opportunity to answer
basic fact questions or pretty straight-
forward legal questions in the Judici-
ary Committee, she ducked them en-
tirely, but we have her record to indi-
cate where she stands.
On the issue of voter protection and
voting rights, we also find another
troubling pattern in Judge Barrett’s
record. This is especially important
when you think about the fact that she
is filling the seat of Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsburg, who wrote that very power-
ful dissent in the 5-to-4 decision in
Shelby v. Eric Holder that took a big
bite out of the Voting Rights Act.
If you look at the statements by
Judge Barrett, she distinguishes be-
tween what she calls individual rights,
like the Second Amendment rights,
versus what she calls a civic right, the
right to vote—putting the right to vote
in a lesser protected category than
what she defines as individual rights.
In fact, Judge Barrett wrote: ‘‘As a
right that was exercised for the benefit
of the community (like voting and jury
service), rather than for the benefit of
the individual . . . it belonged only to
virtuous citizens.’’
‘‘Only to virtuous citizens’’—that is
what Judge Barrett wrote about the
right to vote. The right to vote, as we
all know, is fundamental to our democ-
racy.
Our dear colleague John Lewis, who
recently passed away and was nearly
beaten to death for fighting for that
right to vote, said many times:
The vote is precious. It is almost sacred. It
is the most powerful, non-violent tool we
have in a democracy.
That right to vote should not be rel-
egated to some kind of secondary sta-
tus, as Judge Barrett’s writings indi-
cate she would do.
So if you look at all the challenges
that we face as a country—dealing with
the pandemic, dealing with issues of
police accountability and racial jus-
tice, dealing with climate change, deal-
ing with protecting voting rights—all
these pressing issues that we should be
focused on here in the U.S. Senate, we
are not. Instead, we are rushing
through this illegitimate process to
put a Justice on the Supreme Court
who in each of these areas—each of
these areas where we should be focus-
ing on attention—is actually going to
take us backward.
So I urge the Senate—I can see the
march that is going day after day to-
ward the vote tomorrow, but I urge
this Senate to reconsider the path that
it is on.
This has been a very shameful epi-
sode—watching the complete flip-flop
from 2016, rushing to put on a Justice
whom the President wants and who
Senate Republicans, I think, believe
will act to overturn the Affordable
Care Act, take away a woman’s right
to choose, and be part of an ideological
majority that will strip away impor-
tant rights from the American people.
I will end by just pointing out that
public surveys right now show the
American people are not fooled by this
process. They don’t like what they see.
They want us to be focused on dealing
with COVID–19. They want us to pass a
robust, comprehensive emergency re-
sponse package. That is what the
American people are calling for. In-
stead, this Senate has embarked on
this charade of a process.
There will be a verdict on all of this
by the American people in a matter of
8 days, and I believe there will be a
reckoning on the actions the Senate is
taking and the actions the Senate has
refused to take in addressing the ur-
gent issues that are really facing the
country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I am
going to give some remarks in 4 or 5
minutes. I just wanted to encourage
the staffers, especially the stenog-
raphers, to feel comfortable to keep
their distance from U.S. Senators who
are delivering remarks. There is no
reason, if we have microphones on, to
be anywhere near us. So I would just
encourage them to keep their distance,
especially since most Members are de-
livering remarks without masks on.
So if there is something the staff
could do to just encourage them to
keep their distance, we do want them
to be safe.
I will be giving remarks in a few min-
utes.
I yield the floor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.326 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6518 October 25, 2020
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
CORONAVIRUS
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, before I
talk about the Supreme Court, I want
to express my condolences to the fami-
lies and the loved ones who have expe-
rienced the human toll of the
coronavirus pandemic.
Over 220,000 Americans have died, and
millions of others have been forever
changed. I am going to read some of
the names of those we have lost. The
families of these individuals have given
permission for their names to be read
on the Senate floor, adding them and
their stories to the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD: Mike Hawk, Stephen R.
Chatman, Milan Fryscak, Santos
Gomez, Jack Larvin, Jeanne Lanson,
Wendy Darling-Minore, Rose
DePetrillo, Molly Stech, Larry
‘‘Grouse’’ Cummings, Sarah Ann Staffa
Scholin, Elizabeth Woollett, Lorraine
Mallek, Bob Matusevich, Javier
‘‘Chino’’ Ascencio, Joel Cruz, Michelle
Horne, Juan Carlos Rangel, Laura
Brown, Faye Ann Barr, Yoshikage
Kira, Patricia Manning, Barbara John-
son Hopper, Harry Conover, Stanley
Gray, Mary J. Wilson, Richard Gordon
Thorp, Joe Hinton, Angela Chaddlesone
McCarthy, Gurpaul Singh, Paul J.
Foley Jr., Tim Mulcahy, Kelvin Lurry,
Robert Wherry, Fred Westbrook.
NOMINATION OF AMY CONEY BARRETT
Mr. President, the Senate used to be
a body that valued bipartisanship, de-
liberation, and compromise—a body
that balanced the demands for debate
with the demands for action. But that
was in the past. The Senate no longer
is the body that examines, considers,
and protects our democracy.
The Senate I see now is ruled by par-
tisanship and uncompromising ide-
ology, and in their rush to jam through
a divisive nomination days before the
election and before the American peo-
ple get a chance to have their say, the
majority leader and the Republican
Party are inflicting procedural vio-
lence on the Senate itself and the
American people to achieve their ideo-
logical objectives.
In fact, many Republicans bragged
that they had the votes to confirm the
President’s nominee before the nomi-
nee was chosen. The world’s greatest
deliberative body, with the constitu-
tional responsibility for advice and
consent and a special responsibility to
advise and consent on the highest
Court in the land, decided that they
were A-OK with whatever Donald
Trump decided, that their role in ad-
vice and consent was to basically agree
in advance and to abdicate their role.
Now, we are not a parliamentary sys-
tem. We are a separate, coequal branch
of the government, and we are sup-
posed to have our own views. The Fed-
eralist Society is not a branch of gov-
ernment. Donald Trump should not run
the U.S. Senate. Nobody outside of this
Chamber should be in charge of us, and
to announce that you are for a nomi-
nee, sight unseen, is an abdication of
your role.
Why would you even run for this job?
Why would you even run for this job?
Just go be the executive vice president
of the Federalist Society. If you don’t
believe in the importance of the legis-
lative branch, don’t be a legislator.
We are less than 2 weeks away from
the most consequential decision, elec-
tion, of our lifetimes. Almost 60 mil-
lion Americans have already voted.
And there are legitimate concerns
around an election dispute, and that is
because of the President. The President
has proposed postponing the election.
He has threatened to challenge the re-
sults if he doesn’t win. He has called it
rigged in advance. He has refused re-
peatedly to commit to a peaceful
transfer of power.
He has openly admitted that one of
the reasons that he wanted to hurry in
confirming this nominee—one of the
reasons he wanted to hurry in con-
firming this nominee—is, in case there
is an election dispute, to referee which
votes get counted.
What is funny about this—not funny
like hilarious funny but kind of weird
funny—is that that is the kind of thing
that, if I said that you are just putting
this person in to referee an election
dispute, I would have expected the peo-
ple on the other side to say: How dare
you make that accusation?
But, to the contrary, the junior Sen-
ator from Texas actually said that is
the reason they have to hurry: We had
better get her in so she can rule
against counting votes—in wherever
the Democrats are counting their
votes. That is what he said. This isn’t
a partisan accusation. It is literally
what TED CRUZ said.
The President of the United States
expects his nominee, Judge Barrett, to
be Justice Barrett tomorrow night, to
assist him with ensuring reelection, if
necessary. These statements by the
President should alarm every Member
of this body—Democrat and Repub-
lican. But, actually, it didn’t alarm
certain Members. They found that to
be a justification for hurrying.
Disturbingly, in an exchange with
the Senator from New Jersey, Judge
Barrett would not say that President
Trump should commit to a peaceful
transfer of power. When the Senator
from California asked her if the Con-
stitution gives the President the power
to delay an election, Judge Barrett
said that she didn’t want to give off-
the-cuff answers, even though the Con-
stitution does not, in fact, give the
President that power.
This is part of a pattern. I will take
you through some of this stuff. Any-
time there is a live controversy—and
by ‘‘live controversy’’ it is, basically,
anytime Donald Trump says some-
thing—she is unwilling to cross him.
She is unwilling to cross him.
Our judges are supposed to be inde-
pendent and unbiased interpreters of
the law. That means Judge Barrett
should know what the law says and
how to apply it, especially when the
President threatens to break it in
order to hold onto political power. But
she dodged these important questions
and refused to defend democracy. I
have real doubts about her ability to
serve our Nation impartially, espe-
cially in the case of an election dis-
pute.
There was a 4–4 decision which al-
lowed a lower court decision to be
upheld regarding—it is an election dis-
pute in Pennsylvania. I won’t get into
great detail. The litigants now, because
it was 4–4, are going right back to the
Supreme Court, figuring that Amy
Coney Barrett will rule for them, in
the middle of this election.
This isn’t some theoretical, wild-
eyed, internet-driven paranoia. This is
happening. They went back to the Su-
preme Court to say: How about now?
And I would be a little surprised if they
don’t rule 5–4 on behalf of Republicans
who want to restrict the vote.
In moving forward with the con-
firmation, the Senate Republicans and
the majority leader are going against
the precedent they set 4 years ago.
Look, I understand. I am reasonably
good at politics. I know that hypocrisy
abounds. I understand that hypocrisy
abounds. I understand that, if we take
our case to the American voter and
say, ‘‘They are hypocrites,’’ the Amer-
ican voters are going to shrug their
shoulders and say, ‘‘You’re all hypo-
crites.’’ I get that.
But I am a little bit old-school in the
following way: I come from a legisla-
ture, and I believe your word should be
your bond. Otherwise, this kind of
place won’t work.
When LINDSEY GRAHAM said, ‘‘Use my
words against me,’’ I actually believed
him. I have worked with LINDSEY be-
fore. I have had dinner with LINDSEY. I
sort of personally like him. That prob-
ably gets me in tons of trouble politi-
cally.
But I just guess I thought that, if I
am coming from the Hawaii Legisla-
ture, where your word is your bond,
that is the most foundational rule of
politics. I remember when I was first
elected in 1998. The National Con-
ference of State Legislatures, this
training body for legislators, used to
issue cassette tapes about how to be an
effective legislator.
And I remember this. The first tape,
I would stick it in my Nissan truck,
and I listened to it every day—Roz
Baker. Your word is your bond. That is
the most important coin of the realm.
And I get that. Look, most of the
people in this body are pretty smart.
So they are going to use their ample
brains to justify their new position.
But let’s be clear: This is the most
rank hypocrisy I have ever seen in any-
thing politically, and it is one of the
most important things that I have ever
seen.
It is not a trivial thing that you held
up Merrick Garland. Now, do I go
around saying that on the cable shows
and whatever? No, because I know, out-
side of this body, nobody cares. Inside
of this body, we are supposed to care
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.328 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6519
October 25, 2020
about stuff like that. Inside of this
body, your word is supposed to count
for something. It is not supposed to be
about the maximal use of power in
tricking each other and tricking the
public.
Here is what MITCH MCCONNELL said
about Merrick Garland: ‘‘The American
people should have a voice in the selec-
tion of their next Supreme Court Jus-
tice. Therefore, this vacancy should
not be filled.’’
The Senator from South Carolina
said:
I want you to use my words against me. If
there’s a Republican President in 2016 and a
vacancy occurs in the last year of the first
term, you can say, ‘‘LINDSEY GRAHAM said
let’s let the next President, whoever it might
be, make that nomination,’’ and you could
use my words against me and you’d be abso-
lutely right.
The Senator from Texas said: ‘‘The
American people deserve to have a
voice in the selection of the next Su-
preme Court Justice.’’
It is not just my Republican col-
leagues who have reversed their posi-
tion. It is Judge Barrett herself who
actually warned against making
changes on the Court in an election
year. She said:
We’re talking about Justice Scalia, the
staunchest conservative on the Court, and
we’re talking about him being replaced by
someone who could dramatically flip the bal-
ance of power on the Court. It’s not a lateral
move.
You know what else isn’t a lateral
move? Ruth Bader Ginsburg for Amy
Coney Barrett. Our Democratic institu-
tions depend on the trust of the Amer-
ican people, and we cannot find that
bond of trust if we don’t have it
amongst ourselves.
It is worth mentioning here that Sen-
ate Republicans are also choosing to
confirm Judge Barrett instead of ad-
dressing the pandemic. You know, that
is another thing that sort of sounds
hypocritical because maybe I am exag-
gerating it. But, no, that is actually
true.
MITCH MCCONNELL is very clear. He
didn’t want a COVID bill on the floor
because he is worried that it would
push this thing past the election. So it
is really clear, right? He said—I think
it was in May—he didn’t feel a sense of
urgency. He basically sat back and let
Mnuchin and PELOSI negotiate, even
though whatever they come to will be
blown up here because he doesn’t have
the votes for hardly anything.
But let’s be really clear. His priority
is judges. His priority is always judges.
It is like a joke here. We fly in. A lot
of us fly out on the weekends. When we
arrive, we say, What is on deck for this
week? And everyone says: Nomina-
tions. You have a circuit judge. We
have a district judge. We have another
district judge. How many is it? Oh, it is
five judges this week, no legislating
going on.
That has become the way this place
operates. We are not the world’s great-
est deliberative body. We are just like
a little factory that approves Federal
judges, and that is how MITCH MCCON-
NELL wants it.
It is especially egregious when so
many people need so much help. This is
a world historic event. You have 220,000
people dead. You have about 1,000 peo-
ple dying a day. You have businesses
closing forever. You have economic ex-
tinction all over the country—red
States, blue States, rural areas, urban
areas, suburban areas. The highest pri-
ority for MITCH MCCONNELL is stacking
the courts. That is really the game for
them.
It is important to know who Judge
Barrett is. I want to be really clear—
she seems super pleasant. She is obvi-
ously incredibly accomplished aca-
demically. None of this is personal for
me. But she was groomed by this orga-
nization called the Federalist Society.
We need to understand who they are
and what they do. They basically saw
that they had an opportunity to start
to identify and groom and place young
ideologues. Those are the two key
words. You have to be young, and you
have to be pretty ideological, and then
you are in the Federalist Society, and
then you can get a district court job.
Maybe you are going to be a prosecutor
first, or maybe you are going to be a
district court judge, or maybe you are
going to run for office. But the whole
deal is, this is their farm team.
The Federalist Society has very spe-
cific views—socially conservative, anti-
LGBTQ, super anti-choice. Impor-
tantly, they want to absolutely gut the
regulatory state because where their
money comes from is not primarily
people who care about those social
issues. The money comes from pol-
luters. That is what is going on here.
She comes from the Federalist Soci-
ety. You know, before Trump, nobody
would have ever thought to provide a
list to the public of the potential Su-
preme Court Justices that you would
nominate. That was unheard of. You
are supposed to keep your powder dry
and try to be down the middle, if you
can.
Obviously, a Democratic President
leans left, and a Republican President
leans right, but that is why you got
kind of a mix of ideologies, even
though some of these people who, you
know, after 20 years on the bench, you
can’t even remember whether they
were appointed by a Democrat or Re-
publican. But what has happened in the
last 10 years or so is you can definitely
tell who has been appointed by a Demo-
crat and you can definitely tell who
has been appointed by a Republican.
All of these votes are turning into
partyline votes in the districts and the
circuits and now on the Supreme
Court. Nobody is really making up
their own minds. She came from the
Federalist Society. Look, the Fed-
eralist Society doesn’t appear to be
doing anything illegal. They are just
working the system.
It is worth asking whether this is the
way we want to have our Supreme
Court Justices selected. You have a
whole political party who preapproves
anybody on a list without even know-
ing who is in it but also without even
having a hearing. We do know how she
is going to rule, unfortunately.
The reason the Federalist Society
pushed so hard for Judge Barrett is
that she is an originalist. This means
that she pledges to interpret the Con-
stitution as she determines the Fram-
ers and the public intended at the time
that the Constitution was written
nearly two and a half centuries ago. To
do this, she looks at world as it existed
in 1787 and the values from that time.
We are talking about a time when
full citizenship was limited to White
men, when most Black people were
enslaved and considered property, when
women had no rights protections, being
gay was punishable by the death pen-
alty. That is what she looks to in de-
ciding how our country should be gov-
erned today.
The simple fact is, you cannot be an
originalist and believe in full equality.
You cannot look only at the Framers’
intent and believe in protecting the
rights of women, people of color, Na-
tive-Americans, and the LGBTQ com-
munity.
The two legal views are incompat-
ible. Striving for our Nation’s founding
promise of true equality for all or
equal justice under the law requires
leaving our outdated prejudices behind.
The beauty of our country is that we
have the capacity to improve, to
change each generation since our
founding has made this place better.
Originalism ignores all of that.
Precedent is the reason schools are
integrated. It is why anybody can
marry the person that they love. It is
why 20 million more people have
healthcare. It is why women have the
right to access reproductive freedom. It
is why we have cleaner air and cleaner
water.
Those principles are not written into
the Constitution, but the progress we
have made in statutory law and in ju-
risprudence is protected over time.
Originalists are willing to throw those
things out. That is why originalism is
so dangerous in a courtroom, especially
the Supreme Court in 2020. We should
be very wary of those who wish to take
us back to a place where only some are
free. As we struggle to perfect our
Union, her nomination cements a con-
servative majority and puts a lot of our
hard-fought progress in jeopardy.
The Court will hear cases that test
our values and test our commitment to
equality. Subscribing to originalism is
just another way to say that Judge
Barrett will prioritize a handful of
elite and wealthy Americans. Just like
other jurists handpicked by the Fed-
eralist Society, it is all but guaranteed
that she will decide in favor of cor-
porate power and the wealthy most of
the time.
What we need is a Justice who is
committed to protecting and upholding
the rights of every American, regard-
less of race, religion, gender, national
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.330 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6520 October 25, 2020
origin, or sexual orientation. While
Judge Barrett has been evasive in the
hearings, her record is not unclear.
I would like to walk through her
record on civil rights, LGBTQ rights,
reproductive rights, and climate. Let’s
start with civil and voting rights.
Being named a Supreme Court Justice
is an honor. A Justice should be a de-
fender of human rights and civil rights,
and a Justice must have an unbreak-
able commitment to fight for what is
right and to lead the pursuit in making
America more free.
Judge Barrett has written that the
entire 14th Amendment is ‘‘possibly il-
legitimate.’’ Yes, you heard that cor-
rectly. Judge Barrett questions the le-
gitimacy of the very amendment that
is the cornerstone of civil rights and
equal protections in this country.
The 14th Amendment was proposed
during Reconstruction following the
Civil War when the Union was deciding
how to readmit Confederate States and
restore their representation to Con-
gress. One of the conditions for allow-
ing them to reenter was passing and
ratifying the 14th Amendment. The
theory that she uses to challenge its
validity is that the South was strong-
armed in the supporting it, so the
amendment never truly earned the sup-
port of the American people.
That is crazy. There is nothing in the
law to justify this position, and there
never has been. The Southern Poverty
Law Center calls this a White suprema-
cist myth, perpetrated by Confederate
sympathizers, the KKK, and other ex-
treme rightwing groups.
It is unfathomable to think that any-
body in the year 2020 would be opposed
to the simple concept that every Amer-
ican should be treated equally under
the law. It really should disqualify
Judge Barrett from the Supreme Court
seat.
At the same time, she has repeatedly
overlooked discrimination in the work-
place, concluding that separate can be
equal. I mean, this is basic civics. I
have two teenagers. This is the stuff we
learned as bedrock foundational Amer-
ican history in civics. She is saying
separate can be equal. I read this opin-
ion. She said that using a racial slur in
the workplace does not necessarily cre-
ate a hostile work environment for the
object of that slur.
Try to fathom a situation where
someone is calling someone a racial ep-
ithet but that is not hostility in the
workplace. Her brain is big; I don’t
doubt it. But it is a pretty extraor-
dinary stretch of a pretty extraor-
dinary brain to try to assert that say-
ing something racist to someone in the
workplace is not a hostile act. It is
definitely a hostile act. Maybe I just
lack the educational attainment to un-
derstand how you get so smart that
you lose all of your common sense and
all of your decency and all of your hu-
manity and you forget what you
learned in 6th grade and 9th grade and
12th grade.
During the hearing this week, Judge
Barrett declined to agree that intimi-
dating voters is illegal. I mean, this
isn’t a matter of interpreting constitu-
tional law. This is Federal statute. She
also refused to say whether she be-
lieves voter discrimination still exists.
She refused to say whether voter dis-
crimination still exists. It is like worse
than I thought. Right? I am a Demo-
crat. I didn’t want anybody who didn’t
share Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s views to
replace her. But I am alarmed. And be-
cause of her extraordinary skill and be-
cause she comported herself well in the
hearings, I don’t think people really
know how dangerous this is about to
be. I think people are in for a rude
awakening in terms of what this Court
is about to do to roll back the clock on
some stuff that we pretty much think
we already agree on: gay rights, 70 per-
cent of the public, like we have moved
on; reproductive choice, 70 percent of
the public, we moved on; the Affordable
Care Act, after 15 years or whatever it
is, 12 years of fighting about it, we
kind of moved on. Now, you have Re-
publicans making ads saying, I am
going to protect your preexisting con-
ditions.
The American public has a consensus
on a number of things. I think all of
these people are prepared to undo that
consensus. Here is what is so alarm-
ing—maybe it was this morning or
maybe it was yesterday—the majority
leader, Leader MCCONNELL, after giv-
ing, to me, what was a weird speech—
not substantively. I knew the speech he
was going to give, essentially blaming
Harry Reid for everything. Fine. I
mean, I disagree with it, but I don’t be-
grudge him a partisan speech in this
context.
But the way he did it, he turned his
back—I mean, you are supposed to ad-
dress the Chair, right? Some of us
move around. But this was weird. He
turned his back on the Democratic side
of the aisle and just stared at his cau-
cus and gave them a pep talk and
said—I am going to paraphrase right
now, but it was basically, The stuff we
have done over the last 4 years is going
to be undone in legislative terms as a
result of coming elections, but what we
are doing on the Court will last a life-
time.
I get the point that he is making be-
cause he is just measuring his power.
But everybody should listen to what he
is saying. He is promising that it
doesn’t matter what we do over here
because they are going to undo it over
there.
This man who presents himself as an
institutionalist is deciding that the
U.S. Senate’s role is to just stack the
judiciary and stop legislating, and that
is alarming.
I want to make one sort of final
point. I really worry about the Senate
itself.
I was so thrilled to be here. The cir-
cumstances of my entering the Senate
were tragic, actually, because of the
death of my predecessor. But I am not
going to lie—I was being sent to the
world’s greatest deliberative body. It is
like a promising high school basketball
player, like being the 12th man on the
LA Lakers. That is how I felt. I walked
in, and I thought: This is the big show.
This is the place where we solve Amer-
ica’s problems.
I have seen the inexorable destruc-
tion of this institution because of a
lack of restraint on the Republican
side. I actually would love it if the
blame were equally shared. It would be
easier for me because I don’t want to
sound like that. I don’t get anything
out of that.
I imagined these groups of people—
and it wasn’t always the moderates
right in the middle. Nowadays, the
only people who are kind of cutting
deals in the middle are the moderates.
But back in the day, it was Teddy Ken-
nedy and Orrin Hatch. It was Danny
Inouye and Ted Stevens. And now there
is not even a desire to do big things
here. There is a total lack of ambition
to solve America’s problems here, and
there is a total lack of restraint when
it comes to the exercise of power.
So the old Senate is gone. The old
Senate is gone, and this body has re-
invented itself over and over and over
again, and it is going to have to do it
again. But that old Senate where you
could pour a scotch after yelling at
each other on the floor, it is gone.
I can’t tell you the number of times
I have invited my Republican col-
leagues to come down to the floor and
have a debate. We don’t even argue
anymore. They go on FOX News. We go
on MSNBC. We line up. We smash hel-
mets. They win 52 to 48.
So what is happening in this time pe-
riod, which is to say in the next 24
hours, is sort of the culmination of
Leader MCCONNELL’s philosophy about
what this place should do, which is, we
do judges. We don’t do big things, we
don’t even try to do big things, and we
never fail to maximally use our power.
That is a different model for our legis-
lature. Frankly, it is how a lot of legis-
latures work; it is just not the way this
place used to work. But if that is the
model, then Democrats are going to
have to wrap their minds around what
has happened because we can’t be the
only ones showing any restraint, right,
because that is just a recipe for getting
rolled and rolled and rolled, and that is
a recipe for entrenching minority rule.
I understand that the structure of
the Senate is what it is. It is enshrined
in the Constitution, and far be it from
me to argue that small States
shouldn’t get two Senators. Small
States should get two Senators. Wheth-
er you have 1.5 million people or 50 mil-
lion people in your State, you should
get two Senators. I am for that. But
the way this is starting to work is that
elected representatives who collec-
tively have gathered 10 million, maybe
12 million, maybe by the year 2030, 30
million fewer votes than the minority
party, are going to stack the judiciary
and entrench minority rule.
So something has to give. Yes, I
know there are elections that can re-
solve this, and sometimes when things
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.332 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6521
October 25, 2020
feel stuck, maybe they are not as stuck
as they feel, but the shoe is going to be
on the other foot.
As my good friend Claire McCaskill,
the former Senator from Missouri,
says, you know, the door swings both
ways in Washington.
So I just think it is important for
every Member of this body to under-
stand that the door swings both ways
in Washington. If we are going to re-
build this institution and rebuild the
trust that the public has in their elect-
ed representatives and the judiciary
and public leaders, then we are going
to have to be trustworthy with each
other.
I feel betrayed. One of the most
pleasurable aspects of working in this
place when I first got here, coming
from an almost entirely Democratic
State, was my ability to work with Re-
publicans. It was a unique professional
challenge for me. I am looking at the
Presiding Officer, and we did some
pretty good work together, and it was
a pleasure. That was fun, and that was
the way this place should work.
I worry about how frayed those rela-
tionships are, and I worry about the
fact that there is this kind of principle
that all is fair in love and war. These
guys are about to do something even
worse, so you might as well punch
them in the mouth preemptively, and
the kind of rah-rah speeches that I be-
lieve go on in the Republican con-
ference characterizing us as promising
to do unusually aggressive things, and
therefore they might as well get it over
with in advance. By the way, Harry
Reid did X, Y, and Z, and what about
Robert Byrd? And they get told a story
about how awful we are, and then that
justifies their breaking their bond with
us.
I understand that a lot of what hap-
pens here is a result of polarization
across the country—I would argue
asymmetric polarization—but people
matter, relationships matter, and trust
matters. I have never felt so clear that
we as Members have been betrayed;
that the arguments that were made in
favor of holding up Merrick Garland
were BS, and we have a long way to go
to rebuild this institution.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
CAPITO). The Senator from Con-
necticut.
Mr. MURPHY. Madam President,
first, let me thank the Presiding Offi-
cer, the staff on the floor, and the staff
in both caucus rooms, for putting up
with a very, very late night to take the
floor just past 3:30 in the morning. I
thank my friend Senator SCHATZ for
picking up about an hour and a half,
from 2 until 3:30, and I know that Sen-
ator KAINE will be joining the floor
shortly.
This is an exceptional night because
we are living in exceptional times. We
are likely to see tomorrow a record
number of COVID cases diagnosed in
this country. I know that it now feels
like the new normal 7, 8 months into
this pandemic, but this is unthinkable
that our country has been ravaged by a
virus that less than a year ago no one
had ever heard of.
Sometime in November or December
of last year, COVID–19 started popping
onto the international public health
radar screen in China, and a few
months later, it was here in the United
States. Most countries were able to
come up with a plan to control, con-
tain, or essentially eliminate the
threat of COVID–19 in a matter of
months. The United States was not, be-
cause of an abysmal failure by this ad-
ministration.
We are now living with a third wave
of COVID. As we speak on the floor to-
night, we are looking down the barrel
of 300,000 Americans dead by the end of
this year. No one is safe. There are mil-
lions of kids who can’t go back to
school, businesses that have gone
under, and 10 percent of our workforce
that is out of work.
This is an exceptional night because
we are living in an exceptional mo-
ment, and I will talk over the course of
my remarks about the President’s fail-
ure to meet the moment and to be able
to rescue this country from this pan-
demic—in fact, his daily actions now to
actively spread the disease. There is no
one who is doing more to spread
COVID–19 across the country today
than the President of the United
States, who is holding daily super-
spreader events, who is shaming indi-
viduals who wear masks, and who is de-
liberately trying to reduce the number
of tests that are done in this country.
I also want to acknowledge that the
vote that we have pending, ready for
action tomorrow, is directly connected
to the question as to whether this
country is going to be able to turn the
corner on COVID, because the first case
Amy Coney Barrett will likely hear
after she is confirmed by this body, as
it looks like will happen tomorrow,
will be a case on the Affordable Care
Act—a case that asks the Supreme
Court to invalidate the entirety of the
ACA.
It draws issue with one specific provi-
sion in the ACA, but the remedy it
seeks—the remedy the President of the
United States is asking for—is the
complete invalidation of the Affordable
Care Act. That is 23 million people los-
ing healthcare. That is 130 million peo-
ple all across this country who have
preexisting conditions potentially los-
ing protections that, under the ACA,
prohibit insurance companies from
charging them more.
I have heard my Republican col-
leagues come down to this floor and go
on television and give press con-
ferences in which they suggest that
those of us who say the Affordable Care
Act is about to be struck down due to
the confirmation of Amy Coney Bar-
rett are engaging in hyperbole, that we
are exaggerating. Well, I have been in
the Congress for the last 10 years, the
House and the Senate. My eyes haven’t
been closed. I have watched an unre-
lenting campaign from the Republicans
to try to repeal the Affordable Care
Act.
When I was in the House of Rep-
resentatives, the call from the Repub-
licans was to repeal and replace. The
Presiding Officer will remember this
because I think we served together dur-
ing that period of time. The idea was,
of course, that the Republicans didn’t
like the Affordable Care Act, but they
acknowledged that they couldn’t get
rid of it with nothing else to replace it.
Now, that in and of itself was an ac-
knowledgment of the merits of the Af-
fordable Care Act. The Republicans
may not have liked the details, but
given the fact that they were not sup-
porting repealing it but supporting re-
pealing it and replacing it with some-
thing else, they knew the American
public would not allow for the Afford-
able Care Act to disappear and have
nothing else to stand in its place.
We waited month after month and
year after year for a replacement plan
to be offered by the Republicans. We
waited month after month and year
after year. That replacement plan
never arrived. The closest we came to
seeing a replacement plan was in the
summer of 2017. As we were debating
its repeal here in the Senate shortly
after the election of Donald Trump,
Speaker Ryan, then still in charge of
the House of Representatives, pre-
sented a replacement.
The problem is the replacement was
worse than simple repeal. The Afford-
able Care Act covers around 23 million
individuals, and the Congressional
Budget Office said that Speaker Ryan’s
replacement plan would have resulted
in 24 million people losing healthcare,
going backward from the status quo
ante.
Seventy different times Republicans,
either in the House or the Senate, tried
to repeal all or part of the Affordable
Care Act. You may say: Well, that
sounds unfair. It is not fair to create an
equivalency between efforts to repeal
all of the Affordable Care Act and ef-
forts to repeal just some of the Afford-
able Care Act.
OK, on 31 different occasions, Repub-
licans tried to repeal the entirety of
the Affordable Care Act—31 times,
which is a lot—with no replacement
that would have covered everyone that
receives coverage under the Affordable
Care Act, with no meaningful effort to
protect those who have preexisting
conditions.
My eyes were open to that. My con-
stituents were watching all of that. We
saw how Republicans, 31 times, tried to
repeal the Affordable Care Act.
I have listened to Republicans out on
the campaign trail. I have watched
what Republicans have said to the
press and to their constituents. We are
not blind. We know that Republicans,
for 10 years, have been trying to repeal
the Affordable Care Act. We know that
for 10 years Republicans have not had a
replacement that would insure any-
where close to the number of people in-
sured by the Affordable Care Act or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.333 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6522 October 25, 2020
provide protections to people with pre-
existing conditions.
So don’t tell us that we are
overhyping this desire by Republicans
to take steps in this body that would
lead to the repeal of the Affordable
Care Act because that is the lion’s
share of what Republicans have been
doing for the last 10 years.
In the summer of 2017, Republicans
mounted their last stand to get rid of
the Affordable Care Act. They had con-
trol of the House, the Senate, and the
Presidency. This was the moment to do
it.
In fact, most of us expected that it
was a foregone conclusion, having told
the American public in the runup to
2016 that, If you elect us, we will repeal
the Affordable Care Act, and having
won the House and the Senate and the
Presidency, despite, by the way, get-
ting less votes than Democratic can-
didates for the Senate and the House
and their President having gotten less
votes than the Democratic candidate
for President, by virtue of the way in
which we select representatives
through gerrymandered districts,
through the way in which States with
smaller populations have greater rep-
resentation in the Senate and through
the mechanism of the electoral college.
Despite getting less votes than Demo-
crats all across the country in 2016, Re-
publicans did take control of the
House, the Senate, and the Presidency.
And those are the rules. Those are the
rules. Republicans played by the rules
in running for office in 2016. I am not
begrudging the fact that they did in
fact win control of all three lawmaking
chambers of U.S. democracy—the Pres-
idency, the House, and the Senate. It
was to be expected that Republicans
would repeal the Affordable Care Act in
2017.
But, curiously, they could not, and
the reason they could not is pretty
simple. Democracy took hold. The peo-
ple of this country didn’t allow this
Congress to repeal the Affordable Care
Act. They rose up in record numbers.
Thousands of people turned out to
townhalls all across the country. The
phone lines here were lit up. There
were protests that spring and summer
outside this building on a near daily
basis. It was 100 percent clear that if
Republicans voted to repeal the Afford-
able Care Act and replaced it with
nothing or made our healthcare system
worse, as Speaker Ryan’s plan would
have done, there was going to be hell to
pay from the American electorate.
Now, it turned out that there was,
anyway, because Americans watched
the attempts to repeal the Affordable
Care Act and were just slightly less in-
furiated than they would have been if
repeal had actually gone forward.
But repeal failed. On this floor, late
one night in the summer of 2017, the
bill went down, and Republicans at
that point had figured it out. Having
tried 31 times—70 times, whatever your
number is—to repeal all or part of the
Affordable Care Act, Republicans fig-
ured out that they weren’t going to be
able to get it done through Congress,
that the American people weren’t
going to let them.
So they decided to try another way.
Later that year, the Republican tax
bill passed the U.S. Senate and the
House of Representatives and was
signed into law by the President of the
United States, and inside that tax bill
was a curious provision, a provision
that eliminated the tax penalty for in-
dividuals who don’t have insurance.
That was a really important part of the
Affordable Care Act, not a super pop-
ular part of the Affordable Care Act.
Nobody likes putting a financial pen-
alty on individuals who don’t have in-
surance, but it was really critical to
protecting people with preexisting con-
ditions.
I won’t go into the details of it, but
I actually sat in the Presiding Officer’s
chair during Senator CRUZ’s filibuster
overnight, on a late night like this one.
I was probably presiding as a freshman
Member of the Senate at about this
hour, and in that filibuster—I wouldn’t
recommend going back and looking at
it on tape, but you could—you would
listen to Senator CRUZ explain that, in
fact, the individual mandate and the
tax penalty are critical to protecting
people with preexisting conditions. Be-
cause if you don’t require people to get
insurance but you also require insur-
ance companies to rate folks who are
really sick the same as they rate
healthy patients, the whole insurance
system falls apart. Because if you
aren’t required to get insurance but
you are not penalized if you wait to get
insurance until you are really sick,
then that is exactly what you will do.
You won’t get insurance until you are
really sick. You won’t have to pay any
more once you have that expensive
cancer diagnosis, for instance. Then,
without any healthy people buying
into the system and with only sick peo-
ple part of our insurance pools, the in-
surance system collapses.
So Republicans went into this 2017
tax bill, and they removed the provi-
sion that would provide a financial
penalty. But it really wasn’t actually
that curious. It wasn’t that difficult to
figure out why they were doing that.
Republicans were doing that because,
a few years before, the Supreme Court
had ruled that the Affordable Care Act
was constitutional because of the exist-
ence of that tax penalty. It was an in-
teresting decision, one that I disagree
with, but Justice Roberts ruled for five
of nine members that the Affordable
Care Act could stand as constitutional
because of the existence of that tax
provision.
So you didn’t have to be a rocket sci-
entist to figure out why Republicans
had inserted this provision into the tax
bill—because they believed that they
had a new route, a new pathway, to in-
validate the entirety of the Affordable
Care Act.
Now, having failed to be able to get
the elected branch of government to
undo the Affordable Care Act, they
could essentially plant a constitutional
landmine in the Affordable Care Act
and attempt to get it invalidated
through the courts.
Now, again, let me tell you, I don’t
agree with the Supreme Court deci-
sion—I think it was in 2012—that sug-
gested the Affordable Care Act would
be invalid if you removed this tax pen-
alty. But that decision stands, the
NFIB decision, and Republicans figured
out that they could sabotage the Af-
fordable Care Act and run a case
through the court system that would
end up getting done what they had
been trying to do for 10 years—take in-
surance from 23 million people and the
preexisting conditions protection.
And that is exactly what they did.
That is exactly what Republicans did.
Twenty Republican attorneys general,
joined by a whole host of conservative
political organizations, launched a
court case claiming that because of the
change made in the 2017 tax bill, the
Affordable Care Act was now, all of a
sudden, unconstitutional. It had to be
struck down.
The case went before the district
court, and a Republican-appointed
judge ruled in favor of the Republican
attorneys general. The case then went
to the circuit court, and in a 2-to-1 de-
cision, with a Trump-appointed, Sen-
ate-confirmed judge making the dif-
ference, they ruled in favor of the
plaintiffs, and now that case sits before
the Supreme Court, and it is to be
heard by the Supreme Court in 2
weeks—in 2 weeks.
So now you might be starting to fig-
ure out why we are here. Why are we
rushing through Amy Coney Barrett’s
nomination in record time? You never
had a Supreme Court Justice confirmed
this close to the election. In my polit-
ical lifetime, I have never seen a Su-
preme Court Justice rushed through in
this amount of time.
We have been here all weekend. It is
3:30 in the morning. We took a vote on
Saturday. It is now becoming apparent
why we are rushing this through.
It is probably partially because Re-
publicans are worried they are going to
lose their Senate majority in this elec-
tion and the President is going to lose,
and it will be much harder to push
through a nominee in a lameduck ses-
sion. It is probably because there are
potentially cases to come before the
Supreme Court regarding this election,
and this President wants to make sure
he has as many of his nominees
stocked on the bench as possible if
there are any questions that arise be-
fore the Court regarding the validity of
the election.
But I think mostly the reason that
we are here, rushing through Amy
Coney Barrett’s nomination, in the
dead of night, in record time, 1 week
before an election, is because the Af-
fordable Care Act case is up before the
Supreme Court in 2 weeks, and it is
likely—in fact, almost certain—that
without Amy Coney Barrett on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.335 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6523
October 25, 2020
Court, that case brought by Donald
Trump and Republicans across the
country will not succeed, and that only
by rushing through Amy Coney
Barrett’s nomination 2 weeks before
this case is to be heard by the Supreme
Court can Republicans finally get done
what they have been trying to do for 10
years—repeal the Affordable Care Act
and end insurance for 23 million Ameri-
cans and strip away protections for ev-
erybody who has a preexisting condi-
tion.
Now, I know my Republican friends
get really angry when they hear us sug-
gest that their goal is to end insurance
for 23 million Americans or to strip
protections away from people with pre-
existing conditions, and they will stand
up here and say: No, of course, that is
not what we want to do. We are going
to protect people with preexisting con-
ditions. We will find a way to insure all
those people.
And I truly do believe that my Re-
publican colleagues do, in a perfect
world, want people with preexisting
conditions to be covered. The problem
is they have worked themselves into a
trap that they can’t get out of and that
they know they can’t get out of.
They say they want to cover people
with preexisting conditions, but they
have never been able to put on the
table a plan that would do that. They
have made this promise that they will
repeal the Affordable Care Act, and
they have put themselves on this path
that they can’t get off of to repeal the
Affordable Care Act through legisla-
tion or through the court system, such
that, even though they say they want
to protect people with preexisting con-
ditions, they are acting in a way that
does the opposite.
So you have to forgive us when we
say that you want to strip protections
for people with preexisting conditions.
Because despite the fact that you say
you don’t want to do it, everything you
are doing ends up in that result. So at
some point, we have to watch what you
do, not what you say.
Your President had the chance to go
to court. Well, first of all, your Presi-
dent didn’t have to go to court at all
on behalf of the plaintiffs. In fact, 99
percent of the time, a President will
defend the statute that is being at-
tacked, even if that President doesn’t
agree with the statute. That is gen-
erally seen as the responsibility of the
executive branch, to defend the stat-
utes of the United States, whether or
not you agree with them. That doesn’t
happen in every case, but that is gen-
erally how it works.
In this case, not surprisingly, the
President went to court and said: I am
going to join with the plaintiffs. I am
going to ask for the court to invalidate
the Affordable Care Act.
But President Trump could have
asked for only part of the act to be in-
validated. He could have asked for the
part of the act that protects people
with preexisting conditions to remain,
but he didn’t, and, frankly, Repub-
licans in this Chamber didn’t pressure
him to do so.
Republicans here could have begged
the President, privately or publicly, to
go to the court and ask for the portions
of the act that protect people with pre-
existing conditions to remain, but the
President didn’t do that. He sent his
lawyers to court. His lawyers will be in
Court in 2 weeks arguing that the en-
tire Affordable Care Act be struck
down—the whole thing.
So let me say it again. Don’t blame
us for watching what you do, rather
than what you say. Republicans say
they want to protect people with pre-
existing conditions, but then every-
thing they do and everything this
President does seeks to destroy those
protections.
That is why we are here. We are here
because Republicans have gotten them-
selves on this train that they cannot
stop—this effort that has been under-
way for a decade to strip away the Af-
fordable Care Act protections. Two
weeks from now, the Republicans will
get a little bit closer to what they have
been asking for, for 10 years, when this
case comes before the Supreme Court
and Amy Coney Barrett sits on it as
the deciding fifth vote to invalidate
the Affordable Care Act.
And why this matters more now and
why I led my remarks referencing the
COVID epidemic is because it is un-
thinkable in ordinary times for 23 mil-
lion people to lose health insurance or
for folks that have a history of heart
disease to all of a sudden not be able to
buy insurance.
In my State, that is about 260,000
people who get their insurance through
the Affordable Care Act who would lose
it. We are a small State, about 3.5 mil-
lion. A quarter million people losing
healthcare insurance in our State—
that is a humanitarian catastrophe at
any time, but in the middle of a pan-
demic, that is a nightmarish, cata-
clysmic dystopian future to wish for.
In the middle of a pandemic, to take
health insurance away from 23 million
people, to go back to the days in which
insurance companies could discrimi-
nate against you because you had a
preexisting condition?
COVID is going to be a preexisting
condition. Let me just level with you.
There are 8 million people in this coun-
try who know that they have had
COVID. But, eventually, if people start
taking antibody tests, there will be
five times that many who have a med-
ical history that includes COVID. All
those people will have a preexisting
condition, and insurance companies, if
the Affordable Care Act disappears, can
either decide to not insure those indi-
viduals or can jack up their rates. That
is on top of the 130 million people who
have other preexisting conditions.
So think about both of those things
happening. Think about, in the middle
of a pandemic, when there are over
1,000 people dying every day in this
country, where we are seeing reports of
hospitals literally being filled to total
capacity in parts of our country, for
over 20 million Americans to all of a
sudden not have the ability to pay for
healthcare.
We are in the middle of a pandemic,
but we are also in the middle of a giant
depression; right? I mean, 10 percent of
America is out of work. Guess how
those individuals get health insurance
when they are out of work—through
the Affordable Care Act. People that
lose their job, many of them get insur-
ance through the Affordable Care Act.
They qualify for the Medicaid expan-
sion in the Affordable Care Act, or they
end up buying insurance through these
exchanges.
I have story after story from my con-
stituents in Connecticut of people who
lost their jobs in the middle of a pan-
demic and were able to get health in-
surance because of the Affordable Care
Act.
It is not just that you have all these
sick people who are going to lose insur-
ance when the Affordable Care Act is
repealed but also all these folks who
are out of work and have no other way
to get insurance at an affordable rate
other than the Affordable Care Act.
Stripping it away in the middle of a
pandemic is just inhumane. On top of
that are all of the people who will have
COVID as a preexisting condition.
Wayne lives in Rocky Hill, CT.
Rocky Hill is a small town south of
Hartford. I wish his story were excep-
tional, but you have all heard these
stories, my Republican and Democratic
friends:
Thank you for your continued support of
the Affordable Care Act. Our family has ex-
tensive medical needs, and we rely on the
preexisting conditions and no lifetime cap
coverage provisions that the ACA provides.
Both of our sons have serious health issues.
Harrison is developmentally impaired. Has a
rare genetic disorder, cerebral palsy, hearing
loss, and a rare form of intractable Epilepsy,
characterized by multiple, uncontrolled
daily seizures.
Imagine having a son like that.
Jacob, who just turned 15, has Hemophilia
A with an Inhibitor. If you are unfamiliar
with this disease, it means his body not only
lacks the protein needed to clot his blood in
case of an injury, but it also rejects the typ-
ical medicine used to treat his bleeding dis-
order. This means his only alternative for
treating his often spontaneous internal
bleeds is a very expensive synthetic clotting
factor, which costs around $9,000 a dose.
When he has been injured in the past, he has
to receive doses every 2 hours for the course
of several days. This happened on over six
occasions since he was first diagnosed in
2011.
Think about how lucky you are if
you have healthy kids. I am lucky. I
have two young boys who are healthy.
Harrison has cerebral palsy, hearing
loss, epilepsy, daily seizures. Jacob has
hemophilia—medicine that costs $9,000
a dose.
Wayne writes:
We have had to maintain double insurance
coverage through both my wife’s and my em-
ployers as well as Medicaid in Harrison’s
case. We would have easily been dropped by
any number of insurance companies for ex-
ceeding both boys lifetime expense caps—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.336 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6524 October 25, 2020
Well over 1 million each—
and might not have been able to obtain in-
surance in the first place due to their pre-
existing conditions. If these provisions were
not made law by the ACA, there would be no
way we would have obtained or ever afforded
health insurance. We would not have been
able to keep our home and would likely have
had to file for bankruptcy by now. Both boys
together have been hospitalized on over 36
separate occasions, with Harrison having
spent almost his entire first 6 months of life
in the NICU . . . at a cost of over $1,000 a
day.
Remember, the ACA says insurance
companies can’t deny you coverage be-
cause you have a preexisting condition.
They can’t deny your family coverage
because your child has a preexisting
condition, but the Affordable Care Act
also says insurance companies can’t
cap your insurance. They can’t say:
Hey, if you have an expensive disease,
we are going to insure you for up to
this amount of money, and then we are
going to stop paying for healthcare.
They can’t do that on an annual basis
either. The Affordable Care Act says
they can’t, as an insurance company,
give a dollar amount of coverage over
the course of the year and then cut you
off, because that is not really insur-
ance, right? The whole idea of insur-
ance is that you pay in whether you
are healthy or you are unhealthy, but
you are banking money and you are
using other people’s banked money in
case you get really sick, in case your
family member gets really sick.
If your insurance plan doesn’t cover
you in the case that you have kids like
Harrison and Jacob, then it is not real-
ly insurance in the traditional form of
insurance. That is why the Affordable
Care Act said: No, listen, health insur-
ance is going to have to cover you if
you are really sick or your children are
really sick, and they can’t pull that
coverage after a certain dollar amount
on an annual basis or a lifetime basis.
That is why Wayne talks about the
importance of the Affordable Care Act
for his family. He says: We would have
had to sell our home. We likely would
be bankrupt if not for the Affordable
Care Act.
He says:
If these key provisions are removed—
Which seems entirely likely—
millions of individuals and families with
loved ones having serious illnesses will be
adversely affected.
That is a kind way of explaining
what would happen to Wayne’s family.
They would be adversely affected.
Wayne would lose everything if insur-
ance companies were able to go back to
discriminating against people with pre-
existing conditions and placing back on
insurance plans these annual caps and
these lifetime caps.
Again, the President of the United
States had the choice to go to court
and ask for the entire act to be invali-
dated or for specific provisions to be in-
validated. He asked for the entire act
to be invalidated, which means these
provisions which protect Wayne and
his family will be gone if Amy Coney
Barrett and four other Justices decide
to rule for President Trump on his re-
quest to invalidate the entire Afford-
able Care Act.
Don’t tell us that we are overhyping
this threat, that we are making up this
idea that Republicans want the Afford-
able Care Act to disappear. It is much
of what Republicans have been doing
for the last 10 years. There has been no
viable replacement plan that protects
Wayne in the way that he needs and
Wayne’s children in the way that he
needs.
While no one can be guaranteed as to
what the Supreme Court is going to do,
Donald Trump himself told you that he
is only going to put people on the Su-
preme Court who will invalidate the
Affordable Care Act. He criticized John
Roberts over and over again as a Re-
publican appointee for upholding the
Affordable Care Act. He signaled to you
that he was not going to appoint some-
one to the Supreme Court like John
Roberts—someone who would find a
way to uphold the Affordable Care Act.
He told you that was John Roberts’ pri-
mary sin and that he wouldn’t make
that mistake again.
He, in fact, told you once again just
a few days ago that he hoped the Su-
preme Court would strike down the Af-
fordable Care Act. If that is his hope,
then I don’t know that we can rely on
the idea that he would have then coin-
cidentally been picking Justices to
serve on the Supreme Court who would
follow through on that request.
Julie is from Sandy Hook. Julie says:
On March 25, 1994, I received a lifesaving
kidney transplant at Hartford Hospital. At
the time I was working at a job that was not
fulfilling, and I was trying to complete my
Master’s degree in Education to get my job
in teaching. I finished my degree, got mar-
ried, had two children, and got a dog. Later,
I finally landed a full time teaching position
at Newtown, CT. I know if the law were over-
turned today, I would not have been able to
transfer to my husband’s health insurance
plan and ultimately would not have been
able to achieve my dream of becoming a
teacher.
Now, that is a different story than
Wayne’s, right? It is not equally impor-
tant, but it is important. What Julie is
telling you is that she had a dream to
become a teacher, and she needed to
take the time out of the workforce in
order to pursue that dream, and she
needed health insurance during that
time.
What the Affordable Care Act has al-
lowed for—and this was back in 1990s
that Julie is telling the story. Why she
is telling it is because the Affordable
Care Act gives you the opportunity to
maintain health insurance while you
are out of work or while you are
transitioning from one job to another.
It provides a nimbleness, a flexibility
in the workforce that didn’t exist with-
out the Affordable Care Act protec-
tions.
Julie goes on to write:
In August of this year, I was diagnosed
with B-cell Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma. I am
currently receiving chemotherapy treat-
ments. . . . I am scared to death [she writes]
to imagine what would happen if I am not
able to return to work and I lose my bene-
fits. While my husband does have the oppor-
tunity to get health insurance benefits
through his employer, if the ACA were over-
turned I might not be eligible for benefits be-
cause of my multiple pre-existing conditions.
This could mean financial ruin for my family
since I need continued follow up care even
after I finish my chemotherapy treatments.
Julie is now in this sort of classic sit-
uation in which she has a preexisting
condition. She is currently receiving
treatment, and she is living in fear
about what will happen to her and her
family if all of a sudden the days of dis-
crimination against people with pre-
existing conditions come back. She is
also telling the story about what hap-
pened to her earlier in life when she
went out and got herself reeducated to
become a teacher but had fear about
what was going to happen to her insur-
ance benefits because of that. That fear
doesn’t exist for Americans any longer
because they have access to these pri-
vate healthcare exchanges when they
lose their coverage, perhaps even vol-
untarily because they want to go get
another job. Now she is in this classic
situation in which she has a serious,
serious illness. She talks about the fear
that she has about what will happen if
the Affordable Care Act is struck down.
I think that is important to recog-
nize, as well, because there is a genera-
tion of young adults who, frankly,
don’t even remember the days in which
you could be discriminated against by
insurance companies because of a pre-
existing condition, who don’t know
what it is like to obsess and obsess and
obsess over that question. There are
folks who are 30 years old today who
during their entire adult lives lived
under the ACA, who are having kids
now—kids who may have complicated
medical conditions—and don’t have to
worry about that child living a life in
which they are constantly chasing in-
surance. It just doesn’t happen any
longer.
Now that prospect has returned be-
cause of this case before the Supreme
Court. Now those parents are starting
to worry. What will happen if Amy
Coney Barrett provides the fifth vote
to invalidate the Affordable Care Act
as President Trump is asking the Su-
preme Court to do? What will happen?
Well, what likely will happen is those
protections for people with preexisting
conditions will be struck down, and
once again, parents of children with
complicated illnesses will spend their
lives worrying about how this illness
will define their child’s future. Now, if
you have a serious illness, it is going to
define your future no matter what, but
on top of the daily search for treat-
ment and the daily search for wellness,
there is the worry of whether you are
going to be able to pay for that. It is a
nightmare that we don’t have to
choose to endure as a nation because
right now we have a law that protects
against it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.337 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6525
October 25, 2020
I always remember this very simple
story from a few years after the Afford-
able Care Act was passed. I was at a
community pool in Cheshire, CT, with
my son, who was then 4 or 5 years old.
This young guy—maybe a few years
younger than I—sheepishly approached
me in the pool as I was playing with
my son. He said: Thank you.
I asked: For what?
He said: I want to say thank you for
the Affordable Care Act. I am here with
my son. My son has a rare heart condi-
tion. I used to stay up nights worrying
about what his life was going to be
like. I still have lots of worries, but
now I have one less because of the Af-
fordable Care Act. Now I know we are
not going to go bankrupt paying for
him. Now, more than anything else, I
know his future is not going to be de-
pendent on whether or not he can find
a job that provides him healthcare ben-
efits. He can pursue his dream without
the constant worry of how he is going
to pay for health insurance.
That sounds like a simple thing, but
it is not. For any parent here, the idea
that your child can be whomever they
want to be or at least their life won’t
be dictated by whether they can afford
healthcare for their expensive disease
that they have through no fault of
their own, through no choice of their
own—that is a big deal as a parent. The
Affordable Care Act relieves much of
that worry. That is why people are so
concerned about what Amy Coney
Barrett’s nomination to the Court will
result in.
Malaine from Branford says:
In 2015, my husband co-founded a Bio-
technology company, which is located at the
UCONN Incubator in Farmington.
That is exciting. That was an incu-
bator that I helped conceive as a State
legislator and then as a Congressman.
She writes:
He did this because the ACA made it pos-
sible for our family and the company em-
ployees to have healthcare. The company
now has 10 employees, all high-paying, Con-
necticut based jobs. This entrepreneurship
would absolutely, positively not have been
possible without the ACA. In 2018, the com-
pany transitioned to employer healthcare.
Now through the Trump administration’s in-
competence in the handling of the
coronavirus pandemic, sales of the com-
pany’s product—
They sell to other companies that are
still closed because of coronavirus—
have plummeted and so our company, like so
many, is struggling. If we lose our livelihood,
we also lose the company health insurance,
which means we co-founders . . . would need
to depend on the ACA’s health insurance, if
it still exists.
Once again, this is another story
about how the ACA allows for financial
innovation, allows for economic inno-
vation. This is a company that was
started in Connecticut, a bio-
technology company. Because the ACA
allowed in the early days for those en-
trepreneurs to insure themselves, their
families, and their early employees
through the Affordable Care Act before
they had enough money in the com-
pany, they were able to provide em-
ployer-based insurance. All of that goes
away. That cushion for entrepreneurs
will disappear if this act is invalidated.
These stories go on and on and on, in-
dividuals who will have their lives ru-
ined and changed if the Affordable Care
Act disappears. Again, we might be
months away from that occurring—
months away from that occurring—in
the middle of a pandemic, people losing
their insurance right at the moment
when they need it the most because of
the costs of confronting COVID, be-
cause of the fact that they lost their
insurance because of the recession or
are at risk of losing insurance, like
Malaine’s family is. What a nightmare.
That is not my only worry, though,
when I think about Amy Coney
Barrett’s confirmation. Frankly, I nor
my constituents have had enough time
to really understand the consequences
of Amy Coney Barrett’s nomination be-
cause of how rushed this process has
been. In the middle of a pandemic,
when it is abnormally difficult to be
able to communicate with your con-
stituents, we rushed this nomination
through, which has made it almost im-
possible for people to figure out who
she is, what she believes, and commu-
nicate that in time to their Members of
Congress. I have a feeling there is a
reason for that as well.
The rush job is because Republicans
need to get her on the Court in time for
the ACA case, because Republicans
want to get her on the Court in time to
hear election disputes, because Repub-
licans want to get her on the Court be-
fore a lameduck session makes it hard-
er if the election goes against Repub-
licans. But I have a feeling it is be-
cause they also don’t want people to
figure out what she stands for.
One of the other areas of law in
which Amy Coney Barrett is likely
pretty radical—certainly is radical—is
on the question of America’s gun laws.
Obviously I care about this deeply. I
have borne witness to one of the coun-
try’s worst gun homicides in Newtown,
CT. Right now, on the streets of Hart-
ford, CT, as in many other cities, gun
violence is spiking.
It is not shocking. Gun violence
tends to attract poverty when people
are desperate economically. Whether
we like it or not, they often resort to
violence, and we are in a moment of
economic desperation. You should see
the food lines at food pantries and food
banks in Connecticut. It is not coinci-
dental to that economic desperation
that we are seeing an increase in gun
violence.
Yet gun violence is made a lot easier
in the Nation because of the ease of ac-
cess to weapons. Our Nation is just
flooded with weapons and many of
them illegal weapons, many of them in
the hands of felons—dangerous people
who shouldn’t have them.
We are attempting to pass a uni-
versal background checks bill here in
Congress that would make it harder for
felons—dangerous individuals—and
people with serious mental illness to
get their hands on guns. It is probably
the most popular policy intervention in
the country. I don’t know that there is
any other major piece of legislation
that we have proposed that is more
popular than universal background
checks. It gets about 90 to 95 percent of
support in most polls. The majority of
non-gun owners, gun owners, NRA
members, non-NRA members—every-
body—wants universal background
checks.
It makes a difference. The States
that have universal background checks
have lower rates of gun homicides, sui-
cides, and domestic violence crimes on
average. It is maddening to me that we
haven’t been able to pass universal
background checks here, but that is a
political problem. That is a problem of
political power. The gun lobby has had
much more political power. Despite the
fact that 90 percent of Americans want
universal background checks, it is just
a question of one side having more po-
litical power than the other. That is
changing. Witness the House of Rep-
resentatives’ passage of universal
background checks last year. I think
that we will be able to pass that in the
Senate if the elections go a certain
way.
Yet Amy Coney Barrett has a dif-
ferent idea as to what the barrier
should be to universal background
checks. Amy Coney Barrett believes
there is a constitutional prohibition
against preventing all felons from own-
ing guns. Amy Coney Barrett wants to
take away the choice from Congress of
who can own a gun and who can’t own
a gun. Now, that is not hyperbole. She
will tell you that this is her belief. She
wrote it down in an opinion. She didn’t
serve on the appellate court for very
long, but while she was there, a case on
a State gun law came before her, and
she wrote a dissenting opinion which is
a major outlier in Second Amendment
jurisprudence, and it contains in it
some pretty dangerous ideas that,
frankly, people haven’t had the time to
consider because of how rushed this
nomination has been.
In this case, the Kanter case, Amy
Coney Barrett says that this felon—I
think, in this case, it was a nonviolent
felon—should be able to own a weapon.
This is notwithstanding the State law
that says all felons can’t own weapons.
Amy Coney Barrett comes to the per-
sonal opinion, in this case, that this in-
dividual is not dangerous. What she
says is that it is not for the legislature
to decide who is dangerous and who
isn’t. It is for the courts to decide who
is dangerous and who isn’t, and if the
legislature can’t prove to me, Amy
Coney Barrett, that this person is dan-
gerous, then I will declare that the
Constitution doesn’t allow for that per-
son to own a weapon. The court now
becomes the trier of fact.
This isn’t unfamiliar because this has
been a sort of interesting strain of ju-
risprudence among this new Federalist
Society-vetted, conservative judicial
crowd.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.338 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6526 October 25, 2020
That is sort of the issue in Shelby
County as well. This voting rights case
comes before the Court, and the Su-
preme Court essentially says: We are
going to be the trier of fact with re-
spect to whether there is discrimina-
tion in this country. We are going to
determine whether discrimination
against people of color exists such that
they need these voting protections.
That traditionally would be a function
of the legislature to decide whether
discrimination exists so that it is nec-
essary to require these protections, but
in Shelby County, the Supreme Court
says: No, we will make the decision as
to whether discrimination is a prob-
lem, and if it is not, we will constitu-
tionally invalidate these provisions of
the Voting Rights Act.
Well, in Kanter, what Coney Barrett
says is that courts now will decide who
is dangerous and who isn’t because I
believe the Second Amendment to only
allow for guns to be prohibited to indi-
viduals who are dangerous.
The second thing she says in that
case is equally as dangerous. She says
she also would require a State or the
Federal Government to prove that the
law is efficacious in promoting public
safety. Now, that might not sound to
you unreasonable, but that is not what
the Second Amendment says. The Sec-
ond Amendment doesn’t say anything
in there about gun laws only being con-
stitutional if they can be proven to be
efficacious, and there is always going
to be a study funded by the NRA that
will tell you that, if you take guns
away from people, you make a commu-
nity more dangerous. The NRA is real-
ly good at telling you that the only
way to solve crime is with more guns.
So, conveniently, under Amy Coney
Barrett’s conception of the Second
Amendment, so long as she or others
on the Court can find a plausible argu-
ment that a gun law is not effective in
promoting public safety, it can thus be
ruled unconstitutional.
There are a hundred other courts out
there with Republican judges who have
not found the Second Amendment to
say what Amy Coney Barrett says the
Second Amendment says, and for
courts to, all of a sudden, micromanage
decisions about who is dangerous and
who is not dangerous and what laws are
effective and what laws are not effec-
tive sounds to me like the kind of judi-
cial activism that many of my conserv-
ative friends have been warning
against. I think the natural con-
sequence of that would be to invalidate
a whole host of background checks
laws, perhaps to make it impossible—
indeed, likely, to make it impossible
for us to be able to expand background
checks in a universal fashion as 90 per-
cent of Americans want us to do.
So, while we are certainly spending
most of our time talking about the
threat to Americans’ healthcare—be-
cause we are in the middle of a
healthcare epidemic and because the
consequences are so serious—it is im-
portant to note that it is not only on
the question of healthcare that Amy
Coney Barrett is going to, potentially,
fundamentally change this country.
Whether it be her likely vote to over-
turn Roe v. Wade or the same-sex mar-
riage decision or her radical, out-of-
the-box conception of American gun
laws and the constitutionality of them,
her views are not in the American
mainstream.
Of course, that makes sense because,
increasingly, the Republicans aren’t
using the legislature to try to mold
this country into their world view, into
their political view, because their con-
ception of how this country should be
is deeply unpopular. It is unpopular to
repeal the Affordable Care Act. It is
unpopular to make it harder for the
legislature to put into place universal
background checks. It is unpopular to
allow States to criminalize abortion. It
is unpopular to allow for more dark
money to be spent in elections. It is
unpopular to provide less regulation on
the pollution—oil and gas—industry.
So, increasingly, the Republicans
don’t really try to push that agenda
through Congress because they have
this other way now—because the Su-
preme Court will get all of that done.
The Supreme Court will eviscerate the
civil jury to make it easier for corpora-
tions to prevail in their cases against
consumers. The Supreme Court will de-
clare that a woman’s right to a safe
and legal abortion is not protected by
the Constitution. The Supreme Court
will invalidate the Affordable Care Act.
The Supreme Court will stop legisla-
tures from passing universal back-
ground checks.
As the Republicans’ political agenda
has become less aligned with that of
the broad American public’s, it makes
sense that the Senate has stopped leg-
islating. It makes sense that the Sen-
ate has just become this confirmation
simple machine.
I have been here for the last 2 years.
We haven’t debated any legislation of
substance here. All we have done is
just confirm judges. I checked, and we
have done 20 pieces of legislation. That
is half as many as a normal Senate
would do. Most of the bills we have
passed have been—or not most of them,
but, as I checked, one-third of the bills
that we have passed have been of post
office renamings or commemorative
coins, and we have passed half as many
bills overall as we would in a normal
legislative session. Legislation is just
kind of grinding to a halt here.
Yes, some of that is because the
House is of a different party, and it is
difficult to pass a law when you have
different parties in charge of the House
and the Senate, but there aren’t a lot
of conference committees happening,
and there aren’t a lot of attempts to
reconcile our differences. In part, this
is because the Senate is just con-
firming judges—a record numbers of
judges because, in part, there were
record numbers of vacancies because
MITCH MCCONNELL and the Senate Re-
publicans refused to confirm almost
anybody over the last 2 years of
Obama’s term in office.
They essentially nullified that por-
tion of his Presidency—his right under
the Constitution to nominate and have
considered judges to the Federal bench.
So, when Trump won and the Repub-
licans maintained control of the Sen-
ate, all of a sudden, they had more va-
cancies than ever before. They have
spent the last 2 years populating the
bench, filling those vacancies. That is
their right to do so, I guess, but it is
also part of the strategy to push a con-
servative political agenda through the
courts rather than through the legisla-
ture. Because that agenda is so un-
popular, if it were pushed through the
legislature, it would jeopardize the Re-
publicans’ chances of reelection. This
has been an unusually activist Court,
but it is likely to get more so with
Amy Coney Barrett on the Court.
I want to do two more things before
I yield the floor, and I know Senator
KAINE will be here shortly. I want to
spend a few more minutes on why this
pandemic is so intimately intertwined
into this conversation about this nomi-
nation and then finally say a word on
process.
There are 220,000 Americans who have
died, and millions of others have had
their lives changed forever by this pan-
demic. The number of people who have
been laid off is just sort of
unfathomable to think about. The
President tried a feckless travel ban in
February and March. It didn’t work. It
was not going to work. He, effectively,
gave up after that. He just put the
States in charge and then refused to re-
source the States in a way that would
allow them to adequately and effec-
tively confront the virus. One example
is the President’s refusal to stand up a
national supply chain so that we have
been in constant crisis—first, with re-
spect to masks and face shields and
hand sanitizer and then, throughout
the crisis, with respect to tests and
testing equipment and cartridges.
I was visiting testing sites in Con-
necticut just last week. I mean, we are
in—what?—month 8 of the pandemic,
and still these testing sites in Con-
necticut have no idea, from day to day,
how many tests they are going to have.
I was visiting a hospital that is right
in the middle of a historic hot zone in
Connecticut. I did a roundtable, and
there were a bunch of people there. On
my way out, one of the participants in
the roundtable kind of followed me out.
It happens often, as my colleagues
know, and she wanted to have a private
word with me. She was the purchasing
agent for that hospital who wanted to
tell me before I left exactly how night-
marish her life was for not knowing,
from day to day, how many tests they
were going to be able to do and how she
had to scramble every single day to fig-
ure out how to get the components for
the tests and how there was no way to
plan, how there was no way to say,
‘‘OK, this week, I am going to go to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.340 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6527
October 25, 2020
this site and this site to do tests,’’ be-
cause I don’t know where I am getting
them from.
That is just one of the ways in which
this President has just fundamentally
let us down, but now it is something
different. Now, the President isn’t try-
ing to stop the virus. He is actively
trying to spread the virus. The Presi-
dent is holding these political rallies at
which nobody is wearing masks and
where people are standing shoulder to
shoulder. He knows what he is doing.
He knows that the effect of those ral-
lies is going to be to spread the virus.
He is shaming people who wear masks
and is chiding the Vice President for
always wearing one.
He is now actively engaged in an ef-
fort to test people less because he
thinks that makes the country look
bad. He is at war with his own sci-
entists and regularly undermines his
own officials at the CDC and the NIH.
There is nobody who is doing more
today to help this virus spread than
Donald Trump. Then, on top of that, to
rush through a nominee who may end
up invalidating the Affordable Care Act
and leaving people with no insurance in
the middle of a pandemic that you are
responsible for as President, that is
cruelty built on top of cruelty.
Some of my other colleagues have
done this as well, and I want to do it
just so that some of these people’s
names end up as part of history, as part
of some record other than of lonely
obituaries. I am just going to read into
the RECORD the names of a handful of
the people who have died due to
COVID–19 during this epidemic. I know
it sounds like a futile exercise, given
the fact that I will read 20 names and
that 220,000 have died, but I don’t really
know what else to do at this point to
try to convince this President to stop
spreading the virus—to act in a respon-
sible way, like an adult—other than to
at least put some names to the num-
bers: Avigdor and Rachel Farin, Adam
Russo, Maurice Berger, Robert Her-
man, Mary Margaret Smith, Ingrid
Kisliuk, Johnny G. Gonzales, Anne
Martinez, Amelia Michels, Giomar
Fuentes, Carmen Carlo. By the way,
those last four were related—a mother,
an aunt, another aunt, and a grand-
mother in law. Dr. John Marvin Brown,
Sr.; Sylvia Livings; Howard Kramer;
Robert Patrick Perry, Jr.; Hing S. Yee;
Frank Small III; Steven D. Silverman,
MD; Alexander Malcolm MacMillan,
Jr.; Dean Pryor Perkins; Mary Castro;
Alfonso Ye, Jr.; Michelle Lee Carter;
Jerome Mark Spector; John Robert
Hicken; Frederick Harris; Bill Huening;
Jim Sheehan; Barry Downes; Mark
Blum; Florence Warshawsky Harris;
Kenneth Glover; Terrence Neil Thomp-
son, Jr.; Gordon Pickering; Robert M.
Flanders; Carlos Llamas; Juan Gilbert
‘‘Tito’’ Dominguez; Sarah Ann Staffa
Scholin; Anne Morreale; Roberta M.
Pepitone; Barbara Ross; Jacqueline
Hoover; Kerman Hain; Mario Mendoza;
John Pizzetti; and William Charles Ed-
ward Prince.
These are just two pages of names of
individuals who have died due to the
coronavirus.
The numbers are, obviously, abso-
lutely overwhelming, and it is, of
course, not just those who have died. It
is those who have lost their jobs. It is
all those people who have had the ill-
ness. Eight million people have been
diagnosed with COVID. Who knows
what the overall number is—individ-
uals who had it who didn’t know it,
thought it was something else, or peo-
ple who were asymptomatic. But is
that number 100 million? Is that num-
ber 50 million? It is big, and all those
individuals now have a preexisting con-
dition. All those individuals now could
be discriminated against by an insur-
ance company if the Affordable Care
Act was to be invalidated, and that is
the ask of the Supreme Court—a Su-
preme Court on which Amy Coney Bar-
rett will be sitting if this nomination
is pushed through.
That is why these two questions—of
the Supreme Court nomination which
is before us today and the question of
how we adequately confront the
coronavirus pandemic—are connected
and why we talk about them together.
Finally, let me say a word about
process. This is not the most compel-
ling argument to the American people.
I don’t think they really care too much
about the processes by which we choose
to conduct business here in the Senate,
but we do. We should. We chose to
serve in this body.
I have thought a lot over the course
of the last few weeks about the idea of
restraint—the idea of restraint, the
idea of temperance. It has been a sort
of seminal idea that humans have been
considering for millennia—the idea of
deciding not to do something that you
have the ability to do, the decision to
restrain one’s self, to not use the min-
imum powers available to you because
of the downstream consequences of
your decision to operate at maximum
power, your decision to use all of the
facilities available to you. It is an idea
that humans have considered, as I said,
for thousands of years.
It is generally applied to this body. It
is generally a very important facet of
democracy because the Constitution
says very little about how the Senate
will conduct business. It doesn’t micro-
manage our proceedings.
Certainly, if you read our constitu-
tional history, there was a belief that
the Senate was supposed to be different
than the House of Representatives. Ob-
viously, we are chosen very differently.
At the outset, we were given different
term lengths. The idea was that the
Senate was supposed to be able to look
out for the long-term health of the
country in a way that was different
from the House of Representatives,
given their requirement to answer to
the people every 2 years.
So, over time, there was this under-
standing that the Senate would have,
at its foundation, some concept of fair-
ness, some ability for the minority to
participate. So, over time, there have
been different rules about how many
votes are required for cloture or dif-
ferent practices of how cloture was
used, how often it was used. But always
there was an idea that this place would
be a shared experience; minority and
majority would work together.
Senator MCCONNELL has his version
of history. I think Democrats have a
different version of it. But I don’t
think anybody can disagree that the
changes to the way in which the Sen-
ate operates have come faster and more
furious during the years in which
MITCH MCCONNELL has been majority
leader than at any time before.
I mean, just while I have been here,
we have seen the eradication of the fili-
buster for Supreme Court Justices. We
have seen the time that we have to de-
bate Justices dramatically shrunken. I
think it is now down to 2 hours. We
have seen the elimination of the blue
slip—the ability for Senators from a
particular State to have a say in the
judges that are selected to serve in
their State’s appellate courts.
But we also saw this exceptional
thing happen in 2016, in which MITCH
MCCONNELL, as majority leader, de-
cided that he would not even consider
Barack Obama’s choice for a vacancy
in the Supreme Court, despite the fact
that the vacancy came about 11
months before the next President was
to be sworn in.
In retrospect, Democrats didn’t make
a big enough deal out of it, I think, be-
cause we thought that Hillary Clinton
was going to win, and, thus, ulti-
mately, while it would be a dangerous
precedent to live with, it might not
have a practical effect on the country.
We just couldn’t imagine in the winter
and spring of 2016 that Donald Trump
was going to be the President of the
United States.
In retrospect we should have made a
bigger deal out of what was happening
in 2016, because this idea that Repub-
licans weren’t going to even consider—
even do a courtesy meeting, have a
hearing on—Merrick Garland was and
still is truly exceptional, and it fits
into this pattern we have seen under
Senator MCCONNELL during the past
few years, this pattern of forsaking re-
straint and using every conceivable
power. Or let me back that up: using
more powers available to the majority
than ever before in order to effectuate
a political agenda.
What Republicans did in 2016 was un-
precedented—to just say: Forget it,
President Obama. We are not consid-
ering your choice for the Supreme
Court because you are a Democrat and
we are Republicans.
Now, at the time, as we remember,
Republicans said that it wasn’t polit-
ical. It was because there was an im-
portant rule they were enforcing—this
rule that you couldn’t consider a Presi-
dential nominee to the Supreme Court
in the last year of his or her term.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.341 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6528 October 25, 2020
Now, I didn’t hear my colleagues say
at the time that the rule was only ap-
plied when the President and the Sen-
ate were of different parties. In fact, I
heard many of my Republican col-
leagues, including the chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, say that the rule
was simply that, in the last year of a
President’s term, you don’t consider a
Supreme Court Justice. Famously,
Senator GRAHAM said: Write down my
words. Hold them against me.
And, at the time, we all knew that
Republicans probably weren’t telling
the truth. We knew that it was prob-
ably just because it was President
Obama and they did not want Justice
Scalia, a conservative Justice, to be re-
placed by someone who was more lib-
eral in their views. We suspected that
this idea that they were enforcing a
rule was just a ruse to paper over what
was simply a political decision not to
give President Obama a seat on the Su-
preme Court.
Well, now we know it was a ruse be-
cause, all of a sudden, when presented
with the exact same circumstance—
well, in fact, a different circumstance
in that this vacancy occurred weeks
before the election rather than 9
months before the election—Repub-
licans have now changed their tune be-
cause it is just about politics. Right? It
is just about politics. It is just about
getting your guys on the Supreme
Court and stopping the other guy’s
folks from getting on the Supreme
Court.
And what MITCH MCCONNELL has said
is that we are going to use any power
at our disposal in order to effectuate
our agenda, especially when it concerns
the Supreme Court.
Restraint, which is a predicate for
the effective operation of democracy, is
disappearing. And, again, I know that
it sounds ridiculous to make this sug-
gestion, but there is really no logical
end to how you can maximize your
powers as a majority body in the U.S.
Senate. There is no constitutional pro-
hibition on the Senate majority saying
that Members of the majority are
going to get twice as much staff as
Members of the minority. There is
nothing stopping the majority from
eliminating our speaking rights in
committees, on the floor of the Senate.
There are a lot of things that the ma-
jority can do to make it increasingly
impossible for the minority to have
any role here—to be able to protest, to
be able to carry out our agenda. And I
know that there is a lot of specula-
tion—much of it driven by the Repub-
lican majority—about what Democrats
will do if Democrats are given control
of the Senate. Will Democrats go to
new extraordinary lengths to maximize
their power, given the extraordinary
lengths Republicans have gone to
maximize their power?
That is not a conversation that is
sort of ripe enough yet, but what do
Republicans expect? I mean, what you
did in 2016 is really wild. You basically
invalidated the last year of a Presi-
dent’s term, at least with respect to
that core function of appointing Jus-
tices. And what is wild was that you
didn’t have to go to the lengths that
you did. Republicans could have voted
Merrick Garland down and, at least,
have recognized the legitimacy of the
nomination—voted Merrick Garland
down and perhaps forcing a conversa-
tion about another nominee that might
be more amenable to the Republican
majority. That wouldn’t be the first
time that that has occurred.
One of the statues here in the U.S.
Congress is of Oliver Ellsworth from
Connecticut, who was elevated to the
Supreme Court because George Wash-
ington believed his first pick couldn’t
be confirmed by the Senate. So, in-
stead, he chose one of Connecticut’s
two U.S. Senators, who was beloved in
this body when it operated not far
away. And Oliver Ellsworth went to
the Court because of a quiet negotia-
tion with the Senate.
Republicans, under MITCH MCCON-
NELL, didn’t even engage in a process
with Merrick Garland. They just de-
clared that the President’s choice was
illegitimate. And I can’t argue that
they didn’t—well, I can argue they
didn’t have the power, but certainly
there was a colorable argument that
Republicans in the Senate could just
refuse to consider Merrick Garland’s
nomination.
But now having practiced that exer-
cise of maximum power, using the ma-
jority to delegitimize a President in
that way, you put Democrats, if they
win control of the Senate, in a really
unenviable position. Do we just unilat-
erally stand down and not choose to
use the same tools that Republicans
did in the majority? Would we expect,
if we did that, that if Republicans re-
gain the majority, they would follow
our lead? Or would that be wildly
naive?
No, in fact, I think there are now new
rules in the Senate, and I think Repub-
licans have set them. I get it that you
can claim Harry Reid’s rule change as
the original sin that legitimizes every-
thing that you have done since then,
but the changes Republicans have
made have come at a dizzying pace—far
more changes made, far more prece-
dents shattered than anything that
happened when Democrats were in con-
trol.
And, of course, as to Senator Reid,
many of us would argue that the reason
that that change was made was be-
cause Senator MCCONNELL doubled the
number of cloture motions that were
required in order to move legislation to
a final vote. The change in the use of
the filibuster by Republicans during
their time in the minority was what
forced that change.
But setting that aside, there is no
question that changes have come much
faster and much more furious, and it
just doesn’t bode well for the future of
our democracy when everyone uses the
maximum power available to them,
with no concern for the minority
party, in order to get what they want.
And it is not just the Republican ma-
jority that has done this. So has the
executive branch. I listened to the Pre-
siding Officer give his maiden speech
on this floor about the overuse of Exec-
utive power, and there were legitimate
complaints about ways in which the
Obama administration had used max-
imum Executive power when the legis-
lature would not act.
But, again, it doesn’t compare with
the ways in which this President has
used maximum Executive power in the
absence of authorization from Con-
gress. Both in the executive branch and
in the legislative branch, under Repub-
licans, restraint as a practice inside de-
mocracy is disappearing. Maximum
power becomes the ethos, and that is a
danger to democracy—maybe not
today, but soon enough.
I don’t know how this body gets back
into a conversation about comity. I
don’t know how we get back into a con-
versation about how we govern to-
gether.
I have, frankly, voted for more of
this President’s nominees to the execu-
tive branch, to political offices, and to
the bench than almost all of my col-
leagues, maybe, on this side of the
aisle, maybe with the exception of a
few, because I generally have believed
that if the nominee is in the conserv-
ative mainstream and if the nominee is
generally qualified, they should get
their post, especially for executive ap-
pointments, for nominations to Sec-
retary positions and Undersecretary
positions. I do that, in part, because I
think that it is important to not use
maximum power and maximum lever-
age, for me not to vote against every
single nominee that the President puts
forward just because I disagree with
that nominee.
That conversation about how we re-
store some comity and some restraint
is an important one, but it is likely to
be impossible in the next Congress be-
cause of how fundamentally broken
this body will be after what happened
to Merrick Garland and then, on top of
it, what is happening right now.
We are 8 days before an election. We
are 8 days before an election. We are
jamming through Amy Coney Barrett’s
nomination in record time, not because
it is good for the country, just because
you can—just because Republicans
can—and, likely, because it is really
important to effectuate your deeply
unpopular agenda through the Supreme
Court.
We don’t legislate here anymore be-
cause Republicans have found out a
way to get their agenda done through
the court system. Amy Coney Barrett
will likely be the fifth vote to invali-
date the Affordable Care Act, a polit-
ical project for the Republicans for the
last decade, unfulfilled through the
legislative branch, now achievable in
the next several months through the
judicial branch, but only if Amy Coney
Barrett’s nomination is rammed
through right now.
The rewriting of the Second Amend-
ment is not available to Republicans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.342 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6529
October 25, 2020
any longer in the legislative branch.
The NRA’s priority list couldn’t even
get a vote in the Senate with Repub-
lican control—now available through
the judicial branch if Amy Coney Bar-
rett is nominated. The consequences
for the country are serious if the
source of power in this town, the
source of policymaking and rule set-
ting, moves from this body across the
street to the Supreme Court.
And not equally as dangerous to the
Nation, but still perilous, is what will
happen to this body, if all that matters
political power, when restraint van-
ishes and whoever is in the majority
uses every lever available to them to
try to get what they want, to try to
stop the other side from getting what
they want.
It is 1 week before an election. We
are here all night, ramming through a
Supreme Court nominee in record time
simply because you can. That is not a
good enough reason.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The Senator from Virginia.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise in
opposition to the nomination of Judge
Barrett to the U.S. Supreme Court.
This process shows how misplaced the
priorities of the Senate are at a critical
moment in time.
There is an epic national crisis that
we should be addressing—a pandemic
that is raging and causing unprece-
dented death and economic distress at
a massive scale. Yet the Senate has
been sitting on its hands since late
April when we passed our fourth and
final piece of COVID legislation then,
reinfusing dollars into the small busi-
ness protection program. The death
toll in the United States was approach-
ing 63,000. We have done nothing since,
and the death toll is now approaching
230,000.
Here are a few of the many Ameri-
cans we tragically lost to COVID–19:
Benigno Hurtado-Andrade, Amalia
Pasqua, James Shanley, Verna and
Clarence Cuyler, Betty Damato, Keith
Mitchell Jacobs, Ward H. Harlow, Jr.,
Kyong He Park, James Norton, Char-
lotte Marie Sims, Guus Smeets,
Charles Krebbs, Dr. Gaye Griffin-Sny-
der, Hugh Freyer, Marcel Borg, Nancy
Standage Borbon, Albert Garcia, Helen
Flores, Dean Pryor Perkins, Darrell
William Jones, Paul Abramson, Ever-
ett Pike, Grant D. Ross, Isabelle
Papadimitriou, James Hughston, Jose
Antoniao Reyes, William D. Shilling,
Jr., Ronnie ‘‘Bro’’ Baldwin, Larry Sing-
er, Leone (Kitty) Harriman, Sarah
Roth, Sara Rose Varela, Kenneth E.
Zwick, Sr., Pik Chi Chan, Melinda
‘‘Nina’’ Wernick, Roger Diethelm, Alan
Zundl, Irvin Umberger, Dr. Kirk
Barnett, Danielita Brown, Jose San-
chez.
The number of new coronavirus cases
is now reaching record peaks. The Sat-
urday headline from the Washington
Post, which is the most-read daily
newspaper in Virginia, says it all:
‘‘U.S. hits highest daily number of
cases since pandemic began.’’ Papers
all around the country carry similar
headlines.
Ten months into this crisis, there is
no national plan or strategy for dealing
with it. The Chief of Staff to President
Trump admitted defeat yesterday,
claiming that we are not going to con-
trol the pandemic. It can be controlled
with testing, contact tracing, isola-
tion, and a commitment to mask-wear-
ing, hand-washing, and social
distancing. That is how other nations
are controlling the pandemic. But the
Trump administration is admitting
surrender.
They now tell us that we will just
have to wait for vaccines and treat-
ments, but Americans cannot afford to
wait. The economic devastation accom-
panying this healthcare crisis is cata-
strophic. The unemployment rate is 7.9
percent, which is 65 percent higher
than when President Trump took of-
fice. And that number actually under-
states the magnitude of employment
losses as millions have dropped out of
the labor market to care for children
or their parents or other loved ones af-
fected by this tragedy. Women have
been hit disproportionately hard in
this forced exodus from the job market.
President Trump’s job losses are now
the worst of any American President
on record. Yet the Senate is doing
nothing.
The largest public health crisis in 100
years, the most significant economic
collapse since the Great Depression,
and the Senate has done nothing to
provide Americans relief for 6 months.
This is inexcusable.
The House acted by passing the He-
roes Act in May. I knew that the Sen-
ate majority would not simply embrace
a Democratic bill from the House, but
I believed they would do something.
But the Senate majority would not
even surface a proposal until the very
end of July, just days before many
CARES Act benefits expired and the
Senate went into a month-long recess.
It was not until mid-September that
the Senate GOP finally brought up a
vote on what we all called a skinny
bill—one-seventh the size of the House
proposal and dramatically less than
what even the White House said was
necessary to deal with the crisis. That
bill contained no rent assistance as
millions face eviction, no mortgage as-
sistance as millions face default or
foreclosure, no food assistance as mil-
lions face hunger, and no aid for State
and local governments, whose falling
revenues jeopardize their ability to em-
ploy so many of the health and public
safety workers who we know to be es-
sential right now.
Democrats opposed the skinny bill in
the hopes that rejecting a partisan pro-
posal would lead to a bipartisan break-
through. That is just what happened in
March with the CARES Act. We voted
down a paltry partisan package and
days later found a robust bipartisan
bill to help all Americans. Our ‘‘no’’
vote on the skinny bill in September
did jump-start serious negotiations be-
tween the White House and Democratic
leaders, and the negotiations saw the
two sides growing closer and closer.
But there was a problem. The Senate
majority does not want a COVID relief
bill. We could get there, but last week
the New York Times and other publica-
tions made it plain that no deal was
forthcoming. Why?
‘‘McConnell moves to head off stim-
ulus deal as Pelosi reports progress.’’
‘‘U.S. hits highest daily number of
cases since pandemic began.’’
‘‘McConnell moves to head off stim-
ulus deal.’’
This is what we should be working on
right now, but the Senate majority
abandoned their commitment to help-
ing Americans through this emergency
on September 18—the day that Ruth
Bader Ginsburg died. Since then, rush-
ing Judge Barrett to confirmation has
been all that matters to them—no mat-
ter that Americans deeply need COVID
relief; no matter that the rush to com-
plete a confirmation in 1 month from
nomination to vote is unprecedented in
modern times; no matter that the Sen-
ate majority broke its word to their
colleagues and the American public
that a Supreme Court vacancy occur-
ring in a Presidential election year
would not be filled until after the elec-
tion to ‘‘let the people decide’’; no mat-
ter that the rushed nomination jeop-
ardized the health of attendees at the
President’s superspreading White
House announcement and even staff
and Members of this Senate.
My question is, Why? Why rush this
nomination, ignoring Senate precedent
to do so, breaking your own word to do
so, violating health protocols to do so,
rather than spending our time pro-
viding comfort to families who are
hurting and businesses that are strug-
gling and closing? There could be no
good answer to this question, but the
actual answer is particularly heartless.
The effort to rush the Barrett nomina-
tion is driven by the Republican desire
to destroy the Affordable Care Act.
That has been the goal for 10 years. I
have seen it here on the floor virtually
every day during the time I have been
in the Senate since January of 2013.
The Republican majority—particu-
larly during the Trump Presidency—
has done everything they can in Con-
gress, in administrative sabotage, and
in the courts to destroy the ACA and
take healthcare away from tens of mil-
lions of Americans. Congressional Re-
publicans even engineered a complete
shutdown of the American Government
in October of 2013 to try to achieve
their goal, but they failed.
More States, even Republican States,
have embraced the ACA. It has grown
more popular every day with the Amer-
ican public. But by rushing the Barrett
nomination, President Trump and the
Senate majority see one last chance. In
2 weeks, the Supreme Court will hear
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.343 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6530 October 25, 2020
the case of California v. Texas, a co-
ordinated effort by Republican attor-
neys general, the Trump Justice De-
partment, and many in Congress to de-
stroy the Affordable Care Act.
The death of Justice Ginsburg on
September 18—who had often voted to
uphold provisions of the ACA as an ap-
propriate exercise of congressional leg-
islative power—offered a tantalizing
chance to select as her successor some-
one who has written critically of the
act and of the Supreme Court’s 2012
opinion upholding the law. If she can
be rushed to the Court by November 10,
she can participate in the resolution of
the case.
Getting her there quickly matters
more to the Senate majority than help-
ing the millions who are suffering dur-
ing this crisis. If they are suffering
now, imagine how the suffering would
have been magnified without the
ACA—millions without insurance to
help them through the health crisis;
millions of young people not able to be
on family policies; millions turned
away from coverage because of pre-
existing health conditions and now
having COVID as an additional pre-
existing condition that will potentially
disqualify millions more; millions fac-
ing termination of insurance as
COVID-related health expenses run
them up against lifetime coverage lim-
its.
This rushed Supreme Court nomina-
tion not only ignores Americans’ de-
mand for help at a time of maximum
need, it is done in a way that will like-
ly increase their suffering, with full
knowledge that is the case.
I will not play any part in an effort
of such calculated cruelty. This vote
will hurt the body, hurt the Supreme
Court, and hurt millions of people in
crisis who are struggling, and even
dying, as the Senate ignores their
needs.
Many of our Republican leaders
won’t even wear masks. They refuse to
cover their noses and mouths to pro-
tect themselves and those around
them. But this soulless process shows
that they are glad to cover their eyes
and their ears to block out the pleas of
our suffering citizenry. I will oppose
this nomination.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
JOHNSON). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. I rise today to
speak about the future of the Supreme
Court, the future of our country, and
the responsibility this body has to the
people of our Nation.
It seems that my Republican col-
leagues have lost sight of what the peo-
ple of our States have sent us here to
do. They sent us here to raise their
voices, represent their interests, and
provide them with the help they need.
The American people are truly strug-
gling, and they are calling upon us to
provide them with real relief during
this public health and economic crisis.
That should be our No. 1 priority.
Eight million Americans have fallen
into poverty during this pandemic, in-
cluding an outsized number of people of
color and children. The proportion of
American children who sometimes do
not have enough to eat is now 14 times
higher than it was last year. Parents
are now joining food lines for food
banks because they cannot feed their
children. Cases of COVID are on the
rise as we head toward our third peak.
Small businesses and their employees
don’t see a rebound on the horizon.
People are sick. They are struggling
and scared about the future.
For months, my fellow Democrats
and I have been calling for a vote on
the relief package the House put for-
ward to address these concerns, and we
have been met with silence. Then, after
dragging their feet, Republicans put
forward a totally inadequate $500 bil-
lion package that puts the needs of big
businesses ahead of working families.
What is worse is that they know it has
absolutely no chance of becoming law.
Their only aim is to score political
points, all the while the American peo-
ple keep suffering.
The weeks we should have dedicated
to negotiating a real relief package
have instead been spent rushing
through the confirmation of a Supreme
Court Justice. The hypocrisy is truly
stunning. The same people who denied
Merrick Garland a hearing months be-
fore an election are now trying to ram
this process through while an election
is already happening. Millions of bal-
lots have already been cast. Millions of
Americans are already voting. Their
futures are on the line. They should
have a say in this outcome.
We know why Republicans are rush-
ing. They are rushing because they
know it is their last chance to impose
a very extreme conservative view on
this country. They are rushing because
they see a clock ticking toward No-
vember, when the Supreme Court will
hear arguments on whether 129 million
Americans with preexisting conditions
will continue to have access to afford-
able healthcare. They are rushing to
seat Judge Barrett in time for her to
rule on that case—a case that could
strip millions of Americans of
healthcare in the middle of a pan-
demic, at the very moment they need
it the most. It is simply inhumane.
The Affordable Care Act is a matter
of life or death. I recently spoke to a
New Yorker named Allie Marotta, who
has been living with type 1 diabetes
since 2006. Last December, she turned
26 and aged off her parents’ insurance.
Because her work is contract-based,
she couldn’t enroll with an employer.
She made too much to qualify for Med-
icaid but not enough to afford $400
monthly premiums. She was uninsured
from December to March and had to ra-
tion her insulin, putting her life at
risk. It was only when the pandemic
started and she lost all of her income
that she was able to qualify for the es-
sential plan in New York’s ACA mar-
ketplace and access her life-sustaining
medication. If the ACA is repealed,
Allie will have nowhere to turn.
She is not alone. My friend Kyle lives
with Down syndrome. His father Bill
has multiple preexisting conditions.
Right now, Bill works part time in
order to help Kyle, who needs to be
with somebody 24/7. They are worried
about cuts to Medicaid, which could af-
fect the job-coaching Kyle receives at
the pizza parlor where he works, and
about the repeal of the ACA, which
provides them the only care they can
afford.
Rushing to seat this nominee means
rushing to put Allie’s life and Kyle’s
life and millions of Americans in dan-
ger. My colleagues are putting them all
at risk only to further a very conserv-
ative agenda. It is extreme.
Their agenda is to seat a nominee
who has called Roe v. Wade ‘‘barbaric,’’
when nearly 8 in 10 Americans believe
that it is a fundamental, human, and
civil right for women to make deci-
sions about their bodies, including
when or if or under what circumstances
they will have children; a nominee who
referred to sexual orientation as a pref-
erence—language that is not just out-
dated but truly harmful when two in
three Americans believe love is love,
believe in marriage equality, believe in
the right to marry the person they
love; a nominee who refused to admit
climate change is settled science and
not a controversial issue, when 99 per-
cent of scientists and 81 percent of
Americans believe that humans are
drivers of global warming.
So whose views does she represent?
Certainly not those of the people who
sent us here. They believe in access to
reproductive care. They believe in
equal rights for the LGBTQ commu-
nity. They believe in science. They be-
lieve that this seat should be filled by
the next President and confirmed by
the next Senate. They have made it
clear and don’t want the process of a
lifetime appointment rushed.
This is the wrong judge for this seat,
and this is the wrong process for a life-
time appointment. It is hypocritical. It
is dangerous. It is not what the Amer-
ican people want.
I ask my colleagues to stop ignoring
the people who sent us here and to re-
member that it is our job to look out
for their best interests—no one else’s.
If we don’t do that, we don’t have the
right to be here at all.
I also want to express my condo-
lences to the families and loved ones
who have experienced the human toll
of the coronavirus pandemic. Over
220,000 Americans have died, and mil-
lions of others have been changed for-
ever. I am going to read some of the
names of the people we have lost. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.345 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6531
October 25, 2020
families of these individuals have given
permission for their names to be read
on the Senate floor, adding them and
their stories to the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD:
Mark Anthony Urquiza, Paul
Osterman, Frederick Harold Quinn,
Richard Rosenberg, Charles Mahoney,
Felix Chidinma Oruh, Margaret R.
Hogan, Mahmooda Shaheen, Alan
Kaplan, William W. Boyd, Breda C.
Meadows, Jose Morales Ramirez, David
Benfield, John A. Alexiades, Michael F.
Hughes, Bob McDonald, Richard Proia,
Rashonne Smith, Jose ‘‘Joe’’ Ramirez,
Steve Petras, Sr., Fareeda Kadwani,
Jean Yettito, Abby Spitzer, Robert
‘‘Bobby’’ McCoskey, Jose A. Matias,
Erick B. Chavez, Anastasia
Koiveroglou, Shafqat Rasul Khan, Ly-
nette Scullen and Joan Scullen, Marue
Santini, Buck McKinney, Christina
Danielo, Cal Schoenfeld, Gregg
Pappadake, Sarah ‘‘Sally’’ Bielen,
Rolando Castillo, Nais Coque, David
Tashman, Joseph LoBianco, Ramash
Quasba, Edward Alonzo.
I would also like to share some con-
cerns of the people of New York over
what a future without the Affordable
Care Act would look like.
While my colleagues try to rush this
confirmation so Judge Barrett can be
seated in time to rule on a case that
could cause millions of Americans to
lose access to their healthcare, I think
it is important that we remember how
that case will affect the people we are
here to serve.
In New York, there are more than 8
million people with preexisting condi-
tions who could face higher costs,
fewer benefits, and more trouble find-
ing the coverage they need if the ACA
is repealed. There are more than 3 mil-
lion people who could be denied cov-
erage altogether over preexisting con-
ditions that are deemed uninsurable.
There are more than 470,000 people who
have been diagnosed with COVID, each
of whom could find themselves paying
higher premiums for worse coverage.
My mailbox has been flooded with
letters from New Yorkers who are can-
cer survivors and parents and people
with disabilities who are all worried
about their families not being able to
access the care that they need. Work-
ing to take away their care, especially
in the middle of a pandemic, is inhu-
mane.
Jane from West Islip wrote:
As a cancer survivor, I am very concerned
about healthcare and pre-existing condi-
tions. We’re facing a healthcare meltdown.
This next Justice could be the deciding vote
that determines whether health care for tens
of millions of people, protections for pre-ex-
isting conditions, and other provisions of the
ACA that benefit almost everyone, will stay
or go. Judge Barrett’s documented hostility
towards the ACA disqualifies her from a life-
time appointment to the Supreme Court. A
vote for Judge Barrett is a vote to end
healthcare. Oppose her nomination.
Jane is not alone in her concerns.
Candice from Brooklyn wrote:
I am writing to urge you to oppose the
nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to
the Supreme Court. I am worried that Judge
Barrett’s statements on the Affordable Care
Act mean that, if confirmed, she would vote
to overturn the ACA. Millions of Americans
with disabilities rely on the ACA to protect
our right to healthcare. If the ACA is over-
turned, especially during a pandemic, mil-
lions of lives could be at risk.
This is a concern I have heard over
and over and over and over again.
Meredith from New York City wrote
to me about Stacy Staggs, the mother
of two young children who both have
complex medical needs and disabilities,
who shared powerful testimony during
the Supreme Court confirmation hear-
ings.
Meredith wrote:
When she spoke, she spoke for me. The
ACA and disability rights are at stake. This
confirmation should wait until after the
American people have chosen who should
pick the next justice.
Parents across the State are also
worried about what the Court with Jus-
tice Barrett would mean for their chil-
dren.
Susan from Amherst wrote to me
about her daughter. She wrote:
My daughter is an amazing young woman—
and a lesbian—and an individual with pre-
existing conditions. Her depression has wors-
ened because she sees what a confirmation of
Amy Coney Barrett’s confirmation would
mean to her and many of her friends. Even
Pope Francis believes members of the
LGBTQ+ community deserve to be part of a
family and should be able to participate in
civil unions. Please help! She needs to have
hope! The rush to confirm Amy Coney Bar-
rett to the Supreme Court is concerning. Not
only have Senators not had enough time to
duly vet her, but we are in the middle of a
highly consequential election in which mil-
lions have already cast their ballots. Fur-
ther, Judge Barrett’s LGBTQ rights record
suggests she cannot be an impartial jurist on
these matters. I’m deeply concerned about
the future of rights for the LGBTQ commu-
nity.
These letters also send dire remind-
ers of what life was like for too many
New Yorkers before the Affordable
Care Act—a history we should never re-
peat.
Jan from Ridgewood wrote:
I am 61 years old and have been self-em-
ployed for most of my working life. This cir-
cumstance has made me a healthcare voter!
For decades I thought I was the only one
complaining about impossibly high health
care costs. The cheapest plan that I could
find had a monthly premium of $692. For me
as an individual, with my husband—[who
was] also self-employed—and daughter it was
about 1,250. After my divorce, I went job-
hunting for health insurance. I was willing
to work for free if I could be put on a health
insurance plan. I didn’t find any.
The ACA put an end to that demeaning
search. My income fluctuates, so my pre-
mium goes up-and-down, but it has never
been as expensive as it was before
ObamaCare. There is ample evidence to sug-
gest that Judge Barrett would overturn the
Affordable Care Act. Confirming such a jus-
tice during what is perhaps the worst public
health crisis in American history, and while
the Senate refuses to act to address the
coronavirus economic and health crisis, is
unconscionable.
Let me say that again: Healthcare is
so important that she was willing to
work for free just to have it. That is
what is on the line here.
Repealing the ACA would also mean
an end to the rules preventing insur-
ance companies from charging women
higher premiums than men and requir-
ing them to cover essential health ben-
efits for women. That means women
would not only have to pay more, but
it would also be harder for the more
than 4 million New York women who
are covered by private insurance to
find coverage for maternity care, con-
traception, and cost-free screenings for
breast cancer, cervical cancer, and
bone density. It would return us to the
days when uninsured women could be
denied coverage altogether if they are
pregnant or have a health problem.
It would also put our older adults at
risk. Striking down the ACA would re-
open the prescription drug coverage
cap—the so-called doughnut hole—and
could leave nearly 350,000 seniors in our
State paying thousands of dollars in
out-of-pocket costs for the medications
they need.
Thomas is one of those seniors. He
writes:
The price for the family insurance is high
and with our present administration will go
higher and millions of Americans will not be
able to have insurance. And this is the time
it is needed with the lack of the virus con-
trol. Many Americans are out of work and
will never be able to get a job that paid as
much as the previous job. . . . Many Ameri-
cans have died because the administration
would not treat the virus when it was start-
ing. Many homes now have less people bring-
ing in money to pay bills because of this.
The administration has no plan to replace
ObamaCare. . . . And with the second and
third round of virus and flu, many more may
die. . . . Seniors are on a fixed income and
seldom get any breaks when it comes to
bills. Part D of Medicare prescriptions really
went up this year. At the end of the year, we
fall in the doughnut hole and have to pay
two to three or more times for our medicine
than we were paying. And then at the begin-
ning of the year, we must pay the deductible
which, on the average, is 400 plus dollars. But
remember we are on a fixed income, so that
means going without something else. Again,
a zero-deductible plan does not cover much
unless you pay above 70 dollars a month. Do
not expect the average American to have
much extra money. A lot of people live on
Social Security alone, and the present ad-
ministration wants to stop that income.
The American people do not want to
lose their healthcare, not in the middle
of a pandemic, not ever, and they cer-
tainly don’t believe we should be
prioritizing this nomination over pro-
viding them with real relief.
Christine from Beacon wrote:
I find it appalling and horrific that instead
of a humane relief bill for the people who
have lost family members, jobs, homes, the
stability of their children’s shelter, food se-
curity and education—not to mention the so-
cial cost of interrupting normal childhood
social development and just the terrible grief
and fear [people are dealing with] . . . that
instead of working on a relief bill, we have
another judge infuriatingly and unfairly
jammed in to the court. The Supreme Court!
My god . . . the lack of respect and audacity
of beginning this process. There is wrong and
right. And to quote a great patriot: ‘‘This is
America. And here, right matters.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.346 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6532 October 25, 2020
Christine is right. Doing the right
thing for the American people matters.
It is actually our job. New Yorkers and
people across this country who have
lost their jobs and their employer-
based healthcare are calling on the
Senate to provide them with the relief
they need to survive this health and
economic crisis.
Instead, the Republicans are pouring
salt in their wounds by rushing this
process in order to eliminate the Med-
icaid expansions and marketplaces
these newly jobless Americans have
turned to for coverage. Overturning the
ACA would immediately end the Med-
icaid coverage nearly 1.9 million bene-
ficiaries in New York are relying on.
These stories I have shared represent
the fears and concerns of the people
who sent us here to represent them.
They are people with debilitating ill-
nesses, parents who are worried about
sick children, adults who are worried
about elderly parents, and young men
and women who live with conditions
like diabetes and are already strug-
gling to find insurance that will help
them access the insulin they need.
They are struggling, and it is our job
to get them the help they need. The
American people oppose this nomina-
tion. They are watching, and one way
or another, they will be heard.
I would like to read from an article
in the New York Times by Reed
Abelson and Abby Goodnough, entitled:
‘‘If the Supreme Court Ends
ObamaCare, Here’s What It Would
Mean.’’
‘‘The Affordable Care Act touches the
lives of most Americans, and its aboli-
tion could have a significant effect on
many millions more people than those
who get their health coverage through
it.
What would happen if the Supreme
Court struck down the Affordable Care
Act?
The fate of the sprawling, decade-old
health law known as Obamacare was
already in question, with the high
court expected to hear arguments a
week after the presidential election in
the latest case seeking to overturn it.
But now, the death of Justice Ruth
Bader Ginsburg increases the possi-
bility that the court could abolish it,
even as millions of people are losing
job-based health coverage during the
coronavirus pandemic.
A federal judge in Texas invalidated
the entire law in 2018. The Trump ad-
ministration, which had initially sup-
ported eliminating only some parts of
the law, then changed its position and
agreed with the judge’s ruling. Earlier
this year the Supreme Court agreed to
take the case.
Mr. Trump has vowed to replace Jus-
tice Ginsburg, a stalwart defender of
the law, before the election. If he is
successful in placing a sixth conserv-
ative on the court, its new composition
could provide the necessary five votes
to uphold the Texas decision.
Many millions more people would be
affected by such a ruling than those
who rely on the law for health insur-
ance. Its many provisions touch the
lives of most Americans, from nursing
mothers to people who eat at chain res-
taurants.
Here are some potential con-
sequences, based on estimates by var-
ious groups.
133 MILLION
AMERICANS WITH PROTECTED PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS
As many as 133 million Americans—
roughly half the population under the
age of 65—have pre-existing medical
conditions that could disqualify them
from buying a health insurance policy
or cause them to pay significantly
higher premiums if the health law were
overturned, according to a government
analysis done in 2017. An existing med-
ical condition includes such common
ailments as high blood pressure or
asthma, any of which could require
those buying insurance on their own to
pay much more for a policy, if they
could get one at all.
The coronavirus, which has infected
nearly seven million Americans to date
and may have long-term health impli-
cations for many of those who become
ill, could also become one of the many
medical histories that would make it
challenging for someone to find insur-
ance.
Under the A.C.A., no one can be de-
nied coverage under any circumstance,
and insurance companies cannot retro-
actively cancel a policy unless they
find evidence of fraud. The Kaiser Fam-
ily Foundation estimated that 54 mil-
lion people have conditions serious
enough that insurers would outright
deny them coverage if the A.C.A. were
not in effect, according to an analysis
it did in 2019. Its estimates are based
on the guidelines insurers had in place
about whom to cover before the law
was enacted.
Most Americans would still be able
to get coverage under a plan provided
by an employer or under a federal pro-
gram, as they did before the law was
passed, but protections for pre-existing
conditions are particularly important
during an economic downturn or to
those who want to start their own busi-
nesses or retire early. Before the
A.C.A., employers would sometimes
refuse to cover certain conditions. If
the law went away, companies would
have to decide if they would drop any
of the conditions they are now required
to cover.
The need to protect people with ex-
isting medical conditions from dis-
crimination by insurers was a central
theme in the 2018 midterm elections,
and Democrats attributed much of
their success in reclaiming control of
the House of Representatives to voters’
desire to safeguard those protections.
Mr. Trump and many Republicans
promise to keep this provision of the
law, but have not said how they would
do that. Before the law, some individ-
uals were sent to high-risk pools oper-
ated by states, but even that coverage
was often inadequate.
21 MILLION
PEOPLE WHO COULD LOSE THEIR HEALTH
INSURANCE
Of the 23 million people who either
buy health insurance through the mar-
ketplaces set up by the law (roughly 11
million) or receive coverage through
the expansion of Medicaid (12 million),
about 21 million are at serious risk of
becoming uninsured if Obamacare is
struck down. That includes more than
nine million who receive federal sub-
sidies.
On average, the subsidies cover $492
of a $576 monthly premium this year,
according to a report from the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services. If
the marketplaces and subsidies go
away, a comprehensive health plan
would become unaffordable for most of
those people and many of them would
become uninsured.
States could not possibly replace the
full amount of federal subsidies with
state funds.
12 MILLION
ADULTS WHO COULD LOSE MEDICAID COVERAGE
Medicaid, the government insurance
program for the poor that is jointly
funded by the federal government and
the states, has been the workhorse of
Obamacare. If the health law were
struck down, more than 12 million low-
income adults who have gained Med-
icaid coverage through the law’s expan-
sion of the program could lose it.
In all, according to the Urban Insti-
tute, enrollment in the program would
drop by more than 15 million, including
roughly three million children who got
Medicaid or the Children’s Health In-
surance Program when their parents
signed up for coverage.
The law ensures that states will
never have to pay more than 10 percent
of costs for their expanded Medicaid
population; few if any states would be
able to pick up the remaining 90 per-
cent to keep their programs going.
Over all, the federal government’s tab
was $66 billion last year, according to
the Congressional Budget Office.
Losing free health insurance would,
of course, also mean worse access to
care and, quite possibly, worse health
for the millions who would be affected.
Among other things, studies have
found that Medicaid expansion has led
to better access to preventive
screenings, medications and mental
health services.
800,000
PEOPLE WITH OPIOID ADDICTION GETTING
TREATMENT THROUGH MEDICAID
The health law took effect just as the
opioid epidemic was spreading to all
corners of the country, and health offi-
cials in many states say that one of its
biggest benefits has been providing ac-
cess to addiction treatment. It requires
insurance companies to cover sub-
stance abuse treatment, and they could
stop if the law were struck down.
The biggest group able to get access
to addiction treatment under the law is
adults who have gained Medicaid cov-
erage. The Kaiser Family Foundation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.347 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6533
October 25, 2020
estimated that 40 percent of people
from 18 to 65 with opioid addiction—
roughly 800,000—are on Medicaid, many
or most of whom became eligible for it
through the health law. Kaiser also
found that in 2016, Americans with
Medicaid coverage were twice as likely
as those with no insurance to receive
any treatment for addiction.
States with expanded Medicaid are
spending much more on medications
that treat opioid addiction than they
used to. From 2013 through 2017, Med-
icaid spending on prescriptions for two
medications that treat opioid addiction
more than doubled: It reached $887 mil-
lion, up from nearly $358 million in
2013, according to the Urban Institute.
The growing insured population in
many states has also drawn more
treatment providers, including metha-
done clinics, inpatient programs and
primary care doctors who prescribe two
other anti-craving medications,
buprenorphine and naltrexone. These
significant expansions of addiction
care could shrink if the law were
struck down, leaving a handful of fed-
eral grant programs as the main
sources of funds.
165 MILLION
AMERICANS WHO NO LONGER FACE CAPS ON
EXPENSIVE TREATMENTS
The law protects many Americans
from caps that insurers and employers
once used to limit how much they had
to pay out in coverage each year or
over a lifetime. Among them are those
who get coverage through an em-
ployer—more than 150 million before
the pandemic caused widespread job
loss—as well as roughly 15 million en-
rolled in Obamacare and other plans in
the individual insurance market.
Before the A.C.A., people with condi-
tions like cancer or hemophilia that
were very expensive to treat often
faced enormous out-of-pocket costs
once their medical bills reached these
caps.
While not all health coverage was
capped, most companies had some sort
of limit in place in 2009. A 2017 Brook-
ings analysis estimated that 109 mil-
lion people would face lifetime limits
on their coverage without the health
law, with some companies saying they
would cover no more than $1 million in
medical bills per employee. The vast
majority of people never hit those lim-
its, but some who did were forced into
bankruptcy or went without treat-
ment.
60 MILLION
MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES WOULD FACE
CHANGES TO MEDICAL CARE AND POSSIBLY
HIGHER PREMIUMS
About 60 million people are covered
under Medicare, the federal health in-
surance program for people 65 and older
and people of all ages with disabilities.
Even though the main aim of the
A.C.A. was to overhaul the health in-
surance markets, the law ‘‘touches vir-
tually every part of Medicare,’’ said
Tricia Neuman, a senior vice president
for the Kaiser Family Foundation,
which did an analysis of the law’s re-
peal. Overturning the law would be
‘‘very disruptive,’’ she said.
If the A.C.A. is struck down, Medi-
care beneficiaries would have to pay
more for preventive care, like a
wellness visit or diabetes check, which
are now free. They would also have to
pay more toward their prescription
drugs. About five million people faced
the so-called Medicare doughnut hole,
or coverage gap, in 2016, which the
A.C.A. sought to eliminate. If the law
were overturned, that coverage gap
would widen again.
The law also made other changes,
like cutting the amount the federal
government paid hospitals and other
providers as well as private Medicare
Advantage plans. Undoing the cuts
could increase the program’s overall
costs by hundreds of billions of dollars,
according to Ms. Neuman. Premiums
under the program could go up as a re-
sult.
The A.C.A. was also responsible for
promoting experiments into new ways
of paying hospitals and doctors, cre-
ating vehicles like accountable care or-
ganizations to help hospitals, doctors
and others to better coordinate pa-
tients’ care.
If the groups save Medicare money on
the care they provide, they get to keep
some of those savings. About 11 million
people are now enrolled in these Medi-
care groups, and it is unclear what
would happen to these experiments if
the law were deemed unconstitutional.
Some of Mr. Trump’s initiatives, like
the efforts to lower drug prices, would
also be hindered without the federal
authority established under the A.C.A.
Repealing the law would also elimi-
nate a 0.9 percent increase in the pay-
roll tax for high earners, which would
mean less money coming into the
Medicare trust fund. The fund is al-
ready heading toward insolvency—
partly because other taxes created by
the law that had provided revenue for
the fund have already been repealed—
by 2024.
2 MILLION
YOUNG ADULTS WITH COVERAGE THROUGH THEIR
PARENTS’ PLANS
The A.C.A. required employers to
cover their employees’ children under
the age of 26, and it is one of the law’s
most popular provisions. Roughly two
million young adults are covered under
a parent’s insurance plan, according to
a 2016 government estimate. If the law
were struck down, employers would
have to decide if they would continue
to offer the coverage. Dorian Smith, a
partner at Mercer, a benefits con-
sulting firm, predicted that many com-
panies would most likely continue.
$50 BILLION
MEDICAL CARE FOR THE UNINSURED COULD COST
BILLIONS MORE
Doctors and hospitals could lose a
crucial source of revenue, as more peo-
ple lose insurance during an economic
downturn. The Urban Institute esti-
mated that nationwide, without the
A.C.A., the cost of care for people who
cannot pay for it could increase as
much as $50.2 billion.
Hospitals and other medical pro-
viders, many of whom are already
struggling financially because of the
pandemic, would incur losses, as many
now have higher revenues and reduced
costs for uncompensated care in states
that expanded Medicaid. A study in
2017 by the Commonwealth Fund found
that for every dollar of uncompensated
care costs those states had in 2013, the
health law had erased 40 cents by 2015,
or a total of $6.2 billion.
The health insurance industry would
be upended by the elimination of
A.C.A. requirements. Insurers in many
markets could again deny coverage or
charge higher premiums to people with
pre-existing medical conditions, and
they could charge women higher rates.
States could still regulate insurance,
but consumers would see more vari-
ation from state to state. Insurers
would also probably see lower revenues
and fewer members in the plans they
operate in the individual market and
for state Medicaid programs at a time
when millions of people are losing their
job-based coverage.
1,000 CALORIES
MENU LABELS ARE AMONG DOZENS OF THE
LAW’S PROVISIONS THAT ARE LESS WELL KNOWN
The A.C.A. requires nutrition label-
ing and calorie counts on menu items
at chain restaurants.
It requires many employers to pro-
vide ‘‘reasonable break time’’ and a
private space for nursing mothers to
pump breast milk.
It created a pathway for federal ap-
proval of biosimilars, which are near-
copies of biologic drugs, made from liv-
ing cells.
These and other measures would have
no legal mandate to continue if the
A.C.A. is eliminated.’’
The ACA has made significant
progress in the ability to expand wom-
en’s access to health care. Pushing for
its repeal means putting that progress
and women’s futures at risk.
I would like to read an article by
Jamille Fields Allsbrook from the Cen-
ter for American Progress entitled
‘‘Repealing the ACA During the
Coronavirus Pandemic Would Be Dev-
astating for Women’s Health and Eco-
nomic Security.’’
It reads:
The Affordable Care Act (ACA) has been
one of the most significant advancements for
women’s health and economic security in a
generation. The law expanded coverage to
millions of uninsured people through finan-
cial assistance and public insurance and also
improved the quality of existing coverage,
including by expanding access to reproduc-
tive and maternal health services and by
prohibiting discrimination against women
and people with preexisting conditions. Yet
its fate remains uncertain. On November 10,
the U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral argu-
ments in California v. Texas, a case that will
determine the constitutionality of the ACA.
Specifically, the high court will determine
whether the individual mandate is unconsti-
tutional and whether the remainder of the
law is inseverable from that provision. Espe-
cially with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s
recent passing, the benefits and consumer
protections that women have gained and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.172 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6534 October 25, 2020
come to rely on could swiftly be eliminated.
In short, if the ACA is repealed, coverage for
more than 20 million people and the signifi-
cant benefits and consumer protections that
have been gained under that law are at
stake.
Compounding this issue, the ACA repeal
would come at a time when the coronavirus
pandemic and resulting economic crisis have
already burdened women. For instance, un-
precedented job losses have resulted in the
loss of insurance coverage; barriers to mater-
nal and reproductive health care have been
erected; the providers women rely on—who
were already underfunded—have been
stretched to capacity; and health disparities
that have historically burdened Black and
Latina women have been exacerbated and
compounded. Repealing the ACA during the
pandemic would no doubt cost women—espe-
cially women of color, women with disabil-
ities, women with low incomes, and young
women.
First, repealing the ACA would reduce ac-
cess to treatments and vaccines during the
pandemic and allow COVID–19 survivors to
be discriminated against in the insurance
market, thus lengthening the time that the
crisis will likely affect women and their fam-
ilies. Second, the economic crisis has already
harmed women the most, and eliminating
coverage and allowing gender rating and cov-
erage caps would shift additional costs on to
women. Lastly, existing barriers to maternal
and reproductive health services, both those
created during and before the pandemic,
would likely be exacerbated.
1. Repealing the ACA would prolong
and worsen the effects of the pan-
demic for women and their fami-
lies.
While a repeal of the ACA would be chaotic
and devastating even in typical times, the
current pandemic would only magnify its ef-
fects. Without coverage, women would expe-
rience barriers to a COVID–19 treatment and
vaccine—which could prolong the effects of
the pandemic. These barriers would be most
devastating, however, for women of color
given the health inequities associated with
COVID–19. Compared with white, non-His-
panic people, Black people are 2.6 times more
likely to contract the virus, 4.7 times more
likely to be hospitalized, and 2.1 times more
likely to die from the disease. Similarly,
American Indian and Alaska Native people
contract the virus at 2.8 times the rate, are
hospitalized at 5.3 times the rate, and die at
1.4 times the rate of white, non-Hispanic peo-
ple. And Latinx people are 2.8 times more
likely to contract the virus, 4.6 times more
likely to be hospitalized, and 1.1 times more
likely to die of COVID–19 than white, non-
Hispanic people.
Even worse, if the ACA is repealed, COVID–
19 survivors could be discriminated against
when seeking insurance coverage. Without
ACA protections, insurers in the individual
market could once again charge enrollees
more or deny them coverage if they have a
preexisting condition. This could affect the
more than 7 million Americans who have
been infected with COVID–19, as it could be
deemed a preexisting condition.
Even before the pandemic, a Center for
American Progress analysis found that near-
ly 68 million women—more than half of girls
and nonelderly women in the country—had a
preexisting condition. If insurers are able to
make the determination as to whether a per-
son has a preexisting condition, conditions
ranging from HIV/AIDS to breast cancer to
the nearly 6 million annual pregnancies
could again be included in this category. And
importantly, Black, Latinx and American In-
dian and Alaska Native people have higher
rates of COVID–19 as well as certain chronic
conditions such as cervical cancer and diabe-
tes, so eliminating coverage and protections
for people with preexisting conditions would
harm these communities the most.
2. Women’s financial security would be
threatened by an ACA repeal.
Women have lost the majority of jobs since
the start of the pandemic. In fact, multiple
studies have pointed to the fact that the cur-
rent recession is tougher on women than
men. One U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics ex-
plains that unlike past recessions, ‘‘the
[coronavirus] crisis has battered industry
sectors in which women’s employment is
more concentrated—restaurants and other
retail establishments, hospitality and health
care.’’ Additionally, school closures have
forced women, who are more likely to be pri-
mary caregivers for young children or sick
family members, to reduce hours or leave
their jobs—which can also result in coverage
loses. In particular, Black and Latina moth-
ers are more likely than white mothers to be
the sole or primary breadwinners of their
households, so they will be hit hardest by
the additional financial burdens. Before the
pandemic, there was already a wage gap be-
tween women and men—a gap that is exacer-
bated by race and ethnicity, given that
Black, Latinx, and American Indian and
Alaskan Native populations experience pov-
erty rates that are significantly higher than
those of non-Hispanic, white populations.
Perhaps as a result, women were already
more likely than men to forgo or delay ac-
cessing recommended care due to costs.
Yet given the pandemic, losing the finan-
cial security afforded by having insurance
coverage would be even more devastating for
women. The ACA provided financial assist-
ance for private insurance coverage and ex-
panded enrollment in the Medicaid program,
which resulted in the uninsurance rate
reaching a historic low. As a result, the
uninsurance rate among women declined by
nearly half from 2010 to 2016. An ACA repeal
would merely undermine safety net pro-
grams when people need them the most.
Women comprise 58 percent of Medicaid en-
rollees according to 2018 data, and Medicaid
expansion resulted in a 13-percent decrease
in the uninsurance rate of young women of
reproductive age—19 to 44 years old—with
low incomes. In particular, Medicaid’s no-
and low-cost services afford necessary and
preventive health care access to people with
low incomes, a disproportionate number of
whom are women of color due to systemic
racism, sexism, and poverty. From 2013 to
2018, due to the ACA’s coverage expansions,
fewer Black women and Latinas reported de-
laying care as a result of costs, narrowing
the disparity between white women and
women of color.
Women who maintain access to insurance
coverage could also face increased costs. If
the ACA’s prohibition on gender rating is re-
pealed, insurers could once again charge
women more for coverage in the individual
and small-group markets simply for being
women, reinstating a practice that collec-
tively cost women $1 billion more than men
each year. Additionally, the ACA created the
Health Care Rights Law, which prohibits dis-
crimination in health care on the basis of
sex, race, color, national origin, age, and dis-
ability; notably, this marks the first time
that a federal prohibition against sex dis-
crimination was applied broadly to health
care. Lastly, if the health care law is re-
pealed, women with chronic conditions, such
as HIV and cancer, could be subject to an-
nual lifetime limits—a practice prohibited
under the ACA that allowed insurers to re-
quire plan enrollees pay out of pocket for all
services after they reach a certain dollar
threshold. These increased costs could easily
price many women out of insurance in the
middle of a public health crisis.
The ACA has also been associated with im-
proving job opportunities. The majority of
people in the United States access health
coverage through their employer, yet by im-
proving access to coverage that is not job-
based, the ACA has afforded people the abil-
ity to leave or switch jobs with assurance
that they won’t lose the coverage. Moreover,
the ACA created at least 240,000 jobs in the
health care industry from 2014 to 2016—and
women comprise the majority of health care
workers. The chaos that would result from
repealing the ACA would be felt particularly
acutely by those employed in these jobs.
3. Repealing the ACA would exacerbate ex-
isting barriers to reproductive and maternal
health care services.
According to the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, pregnant people with
COVID–19 have higher rates of hospitaliza-
tion, admission to the intensive care unit,
and mechanical ventilation. And alarmingly,
Black pregnant women are disproportion-
ately contracting COVID–19. Subsequently,
there are concerns that the pandemic will
exacerbate existing health inequities that
have led to Black, as well as American In-
dian and Alaska Native women, dying from
pregnancy-related complications at around
three times the rate of white, non-Hispanic
women. A repeal of the ACA in its entirety
would result in reduced access to pre- and
post-natal care for as many as 13 million
people in the individual market because the
individual and small-group health plans
would no longer be required to cover certain
basic health care services—known as essen-
tial health benefits—including maternity
and newborn care. Eliminating the expanded
eligibility created under the ACA could also
worsen the crisis given that Medicaid expan-
sion is associated with lower rates of mater-
nal and infant mortality and covers 50 per-
cent of births in the United States.
Moreover, due to the many unknowns that
remain regarding how COVID–19 affects preg-
nant people, some individuals may want to
delay or forgo pregnancy, necessitating ac-
cess to comprehensive reproductive health
services. The ACA requires most plans to
cover birth control with no out-of-pocket
costs. As a result, women have saved more
than $1.4 billion a year in out-of-pocket costs
on birth control pills. According to data
from the National Women’s Law Center, 61.4
million women currently have access to
birth control as well as other preventive
services, such as well-woman visits, with no
out-of-pocket costs—thanks to the ACA.
Without requirements for those services to
be covered, women would be forced to pay
out of pocket or forgo care if they could not
afford to. Illustratively, without insurance
coverage, birth control pills would cost a
woman up to $600 per year, and an intra-
uterine device would cost about $1,000 out of
pocket.
Additionally, the pandemic has erected
barriers that make it harder for women to
access necessary preventive care—both as a
result of job losses and barriers to accessing
care during the pandemic. As a result,
women have already delayed care in recent
months. A repeal of the ACA would only lead
to further delays given that plans would no
longer be required to cover preventive
screenings, mental and substance abuse serv-
ices, rehabilitative services, and a host of
other services.
President Donald Trump and his conserv-
ative allies in the Senate are not only for-
going their responsibility to address the
dueling health and economic crises, they are
also rushing to install a new, conservative
justice on the Supreme Court who would tilt
its balance in favor of striking down the
ACA. With November oral arguments quick-
ly approaching, this has increased the risk
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.348 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6535
October 25, 2020
that the health care law will be repealed.
Given the health benefits, protections
against discrimination, and financial secu-
rity that the ACA affords women, destroying
the law would be immeasurably harmful to
women at any time. But repealing the law in
the midst of a global pandemic that has in-
fected millions of Americas and killed more
than 200,000 people in the United States
would result in even more chaos and devasta-
tion.
One of the newest groups of people
with preexisting conditions who are
worried about losing or being able to
afford coverage are the COVID long-
haulers. I would like to read this arti-
cle from PEW Stateline, written by Mi-
chael Ollove, entitled ‘‘COVID–19
‘Long-Haulers’ Worry About Coverage
Costs.’’
It reads:
Andrea Ceresa has been through three gas-
troenterologists already and now is moving
on to her fourth.
She’s seen an infectious disease specialist,
a hematologist, cardiologist, an ear, nose
and throat specialist, a physiatrist and an
integrative doctor. She has an appointment
coming up with a neuropsychologist and an-
other one with a neurologist. She had an en-
doscopy, colonoscopy, CT scan, brain MRI,
and so many blood tests, she said ‘‘I feel like
a human pin cushion.’’ She was planning a
trip soon to an acupuncturist and has a re-
ferral for occupational therapy.
Ceresa, a resident of Branchburg, NJ,
relayed this medical litany on day 164
of her COVID–19 ordeal. So far, she
said, nothing much has helped.
Before COVID–19, Ceresa was a
healthy, active 46-year-old who man-
aged a dental office by day and sang
professionally by night, a woman who
enjoyed yoga and jumped on a
WaveRunner any chance she got. Now,
beset by a multitude of unshakable
symptoms, she said COVID–19 has
transformed her into a ‘‘shell’’ of what
she was. All parts of her body are in re-
bellion. She has severe, persistent diar-
rhea, constant nausea, dizziness, para-
lyzing fatigue, piercing headaches,
numbness in her limbs, blurry vision,
ringing in her ears, and a loss of hear-
ing, an insurmountable deficit for a
musician. She gets a rash on her face,
finds light and Sun painful on her
eyes—a condition known as
photophobia—and suddenly finds her-
self feeling uncomfortably cold for no
reason. On top of all that is an alarm-
ing brain fog.
‘‘At some point in this conversa-
tion,’’ she warned, ‘‘I might lose my
train of thought or forget words.’’
When this will end—if it will end—
none of those doctors and specialists
can tell her, nor can anyone else, not
at the Federal Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, the National In-
stitutes of Health, the World Health
Organization or any other major health
organization. As a result, Ceresa has no
idea what life holds for her.
So-called long-haulers like Ceresa
pose policy questions that have yet to
command much public attention but
daily become more pressing for those
with lingering problems. Unable to
work, will they have access to health
insurance, especially if the Trump ad-
ministration succeeds in overturning
the Affordable Care Act. Will Medicaid
be available to them? Will the Federal
Government invest in research and
treatment? Will they be eligible for
disability benefits?
Advocates say it is essential to begin
grappling with these questions now as
it becomes increasingly clear that for
many being ill with COVID–19 is not a
transitory experience.
‘‘As time goes on and infection rates
go up, the fallout is an extraordinary
number of people who were previously
healthy, working, and engaged in the
economy will now become shadows of
their former selves,’’ said Diana
Berrent, founder of Survivor Corps, a
grassroots organization connecting
those who have been infected with
COVID–19. Berrent said it has 107,000
members.
‘‘People are aging decades in the
course of months,’’ said Berrent, who is
still experiencing symptoms months
after her positive test. ‘‘People in their
20s are suffering heart attacks and
strokes months after their moderate or
even mild COVID experiences.’’
More attention needs to be paid to
those with persistent, serious COVID–
19 symptoms, said Dr. Amesh Adalja,
an infectious disease doctor and senior
scholar at the Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity Center for Health Security.
In this pandemic so far we’ve thought
mainly about the metrics of deaths and hos-
pitalizations, but now we must think about
people with long-haul symptoms. How will
this affect society as a whole? What happens
if people don’t go back to their former level
of activities?
For her part, Ceresa has no idea when
or if she will be able to return to work.
She lost her employer-sponsored
healthcare and recently got on an
ObamaCare policy. But, with uncer-
tainty hanging over the ACA, she won-
ders how long she will have it.
‘‘I have a plethora of preexisting con-
ditions that I never had before,’’ she
said.
Meanwhile, hardly a day goes by that
she doesn’t have some kind of medical
appointment, including some at Mount
Sinai Hospital in New York, which
opened what Berrent said is one of only
two centers in the United States spe-
cifically focused on those with ‘‘long
COVID–19.’’
‘‘I’m doing everything you can imag-
ine to try to get better,’’ Ceresa said.
‘‘If someone says, ‘Try this,’ I’ll try.
I’ll walk on coals. The list of referrals
I have is off the charts.’’
Exactly how many people fall into
the category of long-haulers is uncer-
tain, which is part of the problem,
Berrent said. There is very little re-
search yet on the experiences of people
who suffer from persistent COVID–19
symptoms.
‘‘Even if it’s a small percentage of
people with long-haul symptoms,’’
Adalja said, ‘‘with more than seven
million people infected overall that’s
still going to be a big number.’’
The CDC in late July reported that 35
percent of symptomatic adults who had
tested positive for COVID–19 said they
had not returned to their usual state of
health 2 to 3 weeks after their tests.
Among those ages 18–34, 1 in 5 hadn’t
returned to their normal states of
health. The survey did not include chil-
dren.
There appears to be no data yet on
numbers of people experiencing serious
symptoms over longer periods of time
or detailed information about their cir-
cumstances, such as age, gender, med-
ical histories, or course of their ill-
nesses. Complicating the data collec-
tion is that many of them, even those
with debilitating symptoms, were
never hospitalized.
Some researchers are delving into
the subject, including Natalie Lambert,
a medical researcher at Indiana Uni-
versity School of Medicine, who has
partnered with Berrent’s group to
amass a far more extensive list of
COVID–19-related symptoms reported
by long-haulers than the 11 symptoms
CDC identifies. Lambert’s survey lists
98. Respondents characterize more than
a quarter of those symptoms as pain-
ful.
Because so little is still known about
COVID–19, Lambert said doctors often
dismiss patient concerns that their
symptoms are virus related.
‘‘If a provider is updated, things
move along and that patient has access
to best care,’’ said Lambert. ‘‘But if
the provider is not up to date or is
skeptical that the symptoms are
COVID-related, they might think that
it’s just a case of reflux or anxiety. In
those cases, patients are stuck.’’
Kelly Ausiello, a 42–year-old reg-
istered nurse in Hendersonville, NV,
has had a constellation of symptoms
since April, including severe migraines,
fatigue, nausea, vomiting, and weak-
ness. Ausiello has stopped going to doc-
tors because none knew what to do for
her.
‘‘They keep saying they don’t know
how to help me,’’ she said. ‘‘They just
say, ‘I don’t know,’ ‘I don’t know,’ ‘I
don’t know.’ ’’
She had to suspend her studies to be-
come a nurse practitioner, which she
was on course to complete in Decem-
ber. She doesn’t know if her health will
allow her to ever resume.
‘‘My life is changing maybe forever,’’
she said.
Long-term COVID–19 raises several
policy issues. For people affected, none
is more urgent than the threat of los-
ing their health insurance.
The ACA, which passed in 2010,
barred health insurers from denying
coverage to people with serious or
chronic health conditions prior to en-
rollment, adding significant surcharges
to their premiums, curtailing their
benefits, or imposing extended waiting
periods on them.
Such protections would vanish if the
Supreme Court invalidates the ACA, as
the Trump administration and Repub-
lican Governors or attorney generals in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.349 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6536 October 25, 2020
20 States are urging it to do. The Court
is scheduled to hear arguments in the
case next month, possibly with a new,
decisive, Trump-nominated Justice on
the bench.
A 2017 Federal study found that up to
133 million Americans under age 65 had
preexisting conditions. COVID–19 could
add substantial numbers of people to
that total.
Without the ACA’s protections, peo-
ple who had a positive test for COVID–
19 could be denied coverage. More than
7.5 million cases have been reported in
the United States. Because the virus
has been linked to damage to the
heart, lungs, and brain, a positive
COVID–19 test could be used to argue
that a patient had had a preexisting
condition—COVID–19—to refuse claims
to a patient who later developed a dis-
ease related to one of those organs.
But even those with negative tests
could get caught in the same net, ac-
cording to a paper published late last
month by the Kaiser Family Founda-
tion. The paper notes, for example,
that rideshare drivers who get tested
because they worry they have been ex-
posed could be refused coverage if an
insurer determines that those seeking
tests have higher odds of infection.
‘‘If ACA protections are invalidated,
such people might be turned down,
charged more, or offered a policy that
temporarily or permanently excludes
coverage for COVID–19,’’ the paper
said.
Karen Pollitz, one of the authors, de-
scribed insurers as ruthless when it
came to medical underwriting in the
days before the ACA.
‘‘The individual health insurance
market pre-ACA was a competitive
market,’’ she said. ‘‘It did not pay for
one insurer to be more generous than
another. It was a race to the bottom.’’
Without explaining how they would
do it without the ACA, President Don-
ald Trump and some congressional Re-
publicans have promised they would
continue to protect those with pre-
existing conditions.
At least 17 States have adopted laws
preserving preexisting condition pro-
tections should the ACA be overturned,
but the effectiveness of those laws is
questionable.
The ACA also helps stabilize health
insurance premiums through Federal
tax credits it provides to low-income
policyholders. Those dollars would be
eliminated without the ACA, probably
putting health insurance out of reach
for many Americans, particularly
those facing high surcharges for pre-
existing conditions.
Even if some States tried to preserve
the protections within their borders,
insurers could simply refuse to offer
coverage to residents of those states.
The elimination of the ACA also
might scrap the Medicaid expansion
that was part of the law. That alone
could deprive more than 12 million low-
income, adult Americans, some of
them no doubt long-haulers, of health
insurance coverage.
The dearth of testing, especially
early in the pandemic, could become a
problem for long-haulers if Congress
eventually creates a fund to help pay
for COVID–19 treatment, as it eventu-
ally did for first responders affected by
their work at Ground Zero after 9/11.
‘‘People are going to need to prove
they had COVID, but how do you do
that when tests weren’t available or
were faulty?’’ said Berrent. ‘‘That’s
going to put people in a pickle.’’
Without firm, black-and-white re-
sults, patients with lingering symp-
toms could find it impossible to make
their case that their illnesses were
coronavirus-related.
‘‘There may come a period in which
people are going to have to prove that
COVID is the reason for their heart
issue or lung disease and not just that
they’re getting older,’’ said Nathan
Boucher, an assistant research pro-
fessor at Duke University’s Sanford
School of Public Policy.
Berrent said many of those in her
group complain of doctors not believ-
ing them. ‘‘People are being gaslit by
doctors,’’ she said. ‘‘And it’s more
women than men. I call it a modern-
day version of what they used to call
female hysteria.’’
Joy Wu, a 37-year-old engineer in the
San Francisco Bay area, has had first-
hand experience with that medical
skepticism. She contracted what she
believes was COVID–19 after returning
in March from a vacation on the Gala-
pagos Islands.
She experienced dizziness, nausea, fa-
tigue, back pain, confusion, excru-
ciating headaches, and such weakness
that she has repeatedly fallen. Some-
times her heart races so fast, she said,
‘‘It feels like it’s going to explode.’’
She has episodes of tingling in her
limbs and brain fog.
Because she didn’t have the res-
piratory symptoms most often associ-
ated with COVID–19, she didn’t have a
diagnostic test until day 43, too late to
know if she was infected, as she thinks
she was, weeks earlier. She tested neg-
ative.
She said an ER doctor diagnosed her
with COVID–19, although three medical
doctors have attributed her symptoms
to anxiety. But Wu said that both a
psychiatrist and a psychologist who ex-
amined her told her that mental illness
doesn’t explain her symptoms. It was
through a COVID–19 support Facebook
group that she found others with simi-
lar symptoms.
Apart from ensuring that long-haul-
ers can get health insurance, Berrent
believes policymakers need to ensure
that COVID–19 patients will not be
barred from receiving disability bene-
fits. Many, such as Ceresa and Wu, will
not return to the workforce anytime
soon.
‘‘Disability wasn’t meant for people
when they’re 30 or 40, but that’s what
we are going to be facing,’’ she said.
Beyond finding a way to pay for
COVID–19 treatment, Berrent said, the
Federal Government should invest
heavily in understanding the medical
experience of long-haulers with an eye
toward developing effective treat-
ments. She wants to see more post-
COVID–19 centers established for re-
search and treatment.
‘‘We need a warp speed race for a
therapeutic for people suffering from
post-COVID–19 that parallels what
we’re seeing for the development of a
vaccine,’’ she said.’’
The Affordable Care Act has helped
millions of Americans access the
health coverage they need, and it has
worked to address racial disparities in
health coverage. Overturning it threat-
ens to undo that progress.
I would like to read an article from
the Kaiser Family Foundation by
Samantha Artiga, entitled ‘‘Loss of the
Affordable Care Act Would Widen Ra-
cial Disparities in Health Coverage.’’
It reads: ‘‘In November, the Supreme
Court is scheduled to hear arguments
on a legal challenge, supported by the
Trump administration, that seeks to
overturn the Affordable Care Act
(ACA). As noted in a previous KFF
analysis, the outcome will have major
effects throughout the health care sys-
tem as the law’s provisions have af-
fected nearly all Americans in some
way.
One of the most significant aspects of
the ACA has been its expansion of
health coverage options through the
Medicaid expansion to low-income
adults and the creation of the health
insurance marketplaces with subsidies
to help people purchase coverage.
This analysis shows that these new
coverage options have contributed to
large gains in coverage, particularly
among people of color, helping to nar-
row longstanding racial disparities in
health coverage. The loss of these cov-
erage pathways, particularly the Med-
icaid expansion, would likely lead to
disproportionate coverage losses
among people of color, which would
widen disparities in coverage, access to
care, and health outcomes.
Prior to the ACA, people of color
were significantly more likely to be
uninsured than White people. The high-
er uninsured rates among groups of
color reflected limited access to afford-
able health coverage options.
Although the majority of individuals
have at least one full-time worker in
the family across racial and ethnic
groups, people of color are more likely
to live in low-income families that do
not have coverage offered by an em-
ployer or to have difficulty affording
private coverage when it is available.
While Medicaid helped fill some of
this gap in private coverage for groups
of color, before the ACA, Medicaid eli-
gibility for parents was limited to
those with very low incomes (often
below 50% of the poverty level), and
adults without dependent children—re-
gardless of how poor—were ineligible
under federal rules.
People of color experienced large cov-
erage gains under the ACA that helped
to narrow but did not eliminate dis-
parities in health coverage. Coverage
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.174 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6537
October 25, 2020
rates increased for all racial/ethnic
groups between 2010 and 2016, with the
largest increases occurring after imple-
mentation of the ACA Medicaid and
Marketplace coverage expansions in
2014. Overall, nearly 20 million non-
elderly people gained coverage over
this period, including nearly 3 million
Black people, over 5 million Hispanic
people, and over 1 million Asian people.
Among the nonelderly population,
Hispanic individuals had the largest
percentage point decrease in their un-
insured rate, which fell from 32.6% to
19.1% between 2010 and 2016.
Black, Asian, American Indian and
Alaska Native (AIAN), and Native Ha-
waiian or Other Pacific Islander
(NHOPI) people also had larger per-
centage point decreases in their unin-
sured rates compared to their White
counterparts over that period. These
coverage gains reduced percentage
point differences in uninsured rates be-
tween some groups of color and White
people, but disparities persisted.
Most groups of color remained more
likely to be uninsured compared to
White people. Moreover, the relative
risk of being uninsured compared to
White people did not improve for some
groups. For example, Black people re-
mained 1.5 times more likely to be un-
insured than White people, and the un-
insured rate among Hispanic people re-
mained over 2.5 times higher than the
rate for White people.
Between 2016 and 2017, and continuing
in 2018, coverage gains stalled and
began reversing for some groups. Over
this period there were small but statis-
tically significant increases in the un-
insured rates for White and Black peo-
ple among the nonelderly population,
which rose from 7.1% to 7.5% and from
10.7% to 11.5% respectively. Among
children, there was also a statistically
significant increase in the uninsured
rate for Hispanic children, which rose
from 7.6% to 8.0% between 2016 and
2018.
Recent data further show that the
number of uninsured continued to grow
in 2019 despite improvements in house-
hold economic measures, and indicate
the largest increases between 2018 and
2019 were among Hispanic people.
The growth in the uninsured likely
reflects a combination of factors, in-
cluding rollback of outreach and en-
rollment efforts for ACA coverage,
changes to Medicaid renewal processes,
public charge policies, and elimination
of the individual mandate penalty for
health coverage.
The ACA provides coverage options
for people losing jobs amid the eco-
nomic downturn associated with the
pandemic. The economic fallout of the
coronavirus pandemic has led to his-
toric levels of job loss. As people lose
jobs, many may face disruptions in
their health coverage since most peo-
ple in the U.S. get their insurance
through their job.
Early KFF estimates of the implica-
tions of job loss found that nearly 27
million people were at risk of losing
employer-sponsored health coverage
due to job loss. Many of these people
may have retained their coverage, at
least in the short term, under furlough
agreements or employers continuing
benefits after layoffs. However, the
health coverage options made available
through the ACA have provided options
for people losing employer-sponsored
coverage who might otherwise become
uninsured.
Following enrollment declines in 2018
and 2019, recent data indicate Medicaid
enrollment increased by 2.3 million or
3.2% from February 2020 to May 2020.
Additionally, as of May 2020, enroll-
ment data reveal nearly 500,000 people
had gained Marketplace coverage
through a special enrollment period
(SEP), in most cases due to the loss of
job-based coverage.
The number of people gaining Mar-
ketplace coverage through a SEP in
April 2020 was up 139% compared to
April 2019 and up 43% in May 2020 com-
pared to May 2019.
People of color would likely experi-
ence the largest coverage losses if the
ACA coverage options were eliminated.
In the absence of the ACA, states
would lose a pathway to cover adults
without dependent children through
Medicaid under federal rules. They also
would lose access to the enhanced fed-
eral funding provided to cover expan-
sion adults.
As such, states would face challenges
to maintain coverage for adults with-
out dependent children and parents and
many would likely roll back this cov-
erage, eliminating a coverage option
for millions of low-income parents and
childless adults who do not have access
to other affordable coverage.
Moreover, without the federal sub-
sidies, many people would not be able
to afford private coverage. Since people
of color experienced larger gains in
coverage under the ACA compared to
their White counterparts, they would
likely also experience larger coverage
losses if these coverage options were
eliminated.
Loss of the Medicaid expansion, in
particular, would likely lead to dis-
proportionate coverage losses among
people of color, contributing to wid-
ening disparities in coverage, access to
and use of care, and health outcomes.
Overall, among the nonelderly popu-
lation, roughly one in three Black, His-
panic, and AIAN people are covered by
Medicaid compared to 15% of White
people.
Further, research shows that the
ACA Medicaid expansion to low-income
adults has helped to narrow racial dis-
parities in health coverage, contrib-
uted to improvements in access to and
use of care across groups, and narrowed
disparities in health outcomes for
Black and Hispanic individuals, par-
ticularly for measures of maternal
health.
In sum, the outcome of the pending
legal challenge to overturn the ACA
will have effects that extend broadly
across the health care system and
touch nearly all Americans. These ef-
fects could include widening racial dis-
parities in health coverage and health
care, at a time when there is a growing
focus on prioritizing and advancing
health equity and in the middle of a
pandemic that has disproportionately
affected people of color in the U.S.
Without the ACA coverage expan-
sions, people of color would likely face
widening gaps in health insurance cov-
erage, which would contribute to great-
er barriers to health care and worse
health outcomes and leave them at in-
creased risk for medical debt and fi-
nancial challenges due to health care
costs.’’
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. BAR-
RASSO). The Senator from Nebraska.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, Senators
have worked through the weekend and
the clock is obviously winding down
later today. Tonight after final con-
firmation vote, Judge Amy Coney Bar-
rett is going to become Justice Amy
Coney Barrett. For those of us who
have been advocating for her—in my
case it has been since the summer of
2017—that is welcome news. She is an
unparalleled nominee and will be a daz-
zling originalist on the Supreme Court.
None of the baseless allegations that
have been leveled against Judge Bar-
rett have swayed any votes. Democrats
didn’t lay a glove on Judge Barrett in
her confirmation hearing, and I think
she ran circles around career politi-
cians who want to outsource more law-
making to unelected judges. Some
folks are upset about that, and even
though many of my male colleagues on
the Judiciary Committee also com-
plimented the Judiciary Committee
chairman on a very well-run hearing,
tragically, the minority leader—it
seems that he has decided to make
DIANNE FEINSTEIN a scapegoat for the
unforgiveable sin of being unwilling to
turn more of Judge Barrett’s hearing
into another Michael Avenatti clown
show. I think that is just a painful mo-
ment in this institution’s history, and
it speaks volumes about how low some
people are willing to sink in response
to outside activists who would like to
see bare-knuckle politics be the only
thing that happens in the Senate.
Judge Barrett’s opponents know that
they don’t have the votes. They know
they don’t actually have public sup-
port. They have seen the polling rise
steadily week after week after week
over the last month as the American
public has gotten to know Judge Bar-
rett better and learn more about her.
They are more and more comfortable
with her and less and less open to some
of this sort of hyperbolic rhetoric that
we have seen leveled against her.
This is actually my fourth consecu-
tive hour on the floor this morning. I
have heard a series of speeches and one
of the things that is obvious is that
there are a whole bunch of phrases that
were written up. I don’t know who
wrote them up. I don’t know how this
process happens, but speech after
speech after speech uses really similar
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.175 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6538 October 25, 2020
phrasing to try to alarm and disturb
and unsettle the American people, and
I think the cynicism is just really trag-
ic. I have heard now, I think, four
speeches in a row implying that when
Judge Barrett becomes Justice Barrett
later tonight, that obviously means the
end of healthcare in America. The last
speech, actually, included this phrase:
A vote for Amy Barrett is a vote to end
healthcare. The speech said: ‘‘A vote
for Amy Coney Barrett is a vote to end
healthcare.’’
That isn’t just preposterous, it is so
destructive of the public good and of
public trust, and I don’t want this body
to continue its decline, but I hope that
next April, May or June, when the Su-
preme Court rules and when
ObamaCare doesn’t die—as no expert
thinks this case is actually going to do.
There are no Court watchers who real-
ly believe that the Supreme Court is
going to end ObamaCare this year. Sev-
erability is a pretty important legal
concept that those of us who serve as
public servants for a time should be
helping the American people under-
stand. And yet nobody on the other
side of the aisle is talking about sever-
ability, even though everybody watch-
ing the court case knows that even if
the opponents of ObamaCare prevail in
this case, that severability is what ev-
eryone expects will actually happen.
And yet we hear again and again and
again this rhetoric just motivated by
the cynical desire to get people to vote
out of fear and panic in the November
elections. Nobody really believes this
stuff. So I hope the Democrats that are
making these speeches, staying here all
night to say again and again things
like ‘‘a vote for Amy Coney Barrett is
a vote to end healthcare,’’ please have
the courage to come back next April,
May, and June and say you lied to the
American people, you were just trying
to scare them into voting, and say
what you were saying was BS.
Whoever writes these outside talking
points, it is really destructive, and the
Senators know better than to parrot
this pap.
So they are out of arguments, but
they are not out of sound bites, and one
of the things that is true in American
life is that with freedom of speech,
even if your sound bite is nonsense,
you have the right to be wrong, and
you have the right to say it. So given
that we are going to be here all day—
it is all over but the shouting—it seems
like we don’t have to play the same
speeches on repeat over and over again.
We can actually do two things, and I
think we should spend a little bit of
time reviewing how we got here and a
little bit of time talking about where
we go next.
First, we should explicitly name the
Senate’s most valuable player. As
somebody who is a junior member of
this body, I don’t want to cross ‘‘Co-
caine MITCH,’’ the gentleman from Ken-
tucky, but the truth of the matter is,
the Senator most responsible for the
confirmation proceedings we have hap-
pening on the floor today is not from
Kentucky. The Senator most respon-
sible for the fact that Amy Coney Bar-
rett is going to be confirmed tonight,
the Senator most responsible for the
confirmation of Neil Gorsuch and Brett
Kavanaugh is the former Democratic
leader from Nevada, Senator Harry
Reid. It was Senator Harry Reid who
blew up the filibuster for judicial ap-
pointments in November of 2013, and
the rest of how we got here is just a
footnote on that history.
Leader MCCONNELL walked through
some of this history on Friday and Sat-
urday, how at every turn, from Robert
Bork to Brett Kavanaugh, many pro-
gressives have, in an effort to try to se-
cure policy outcomes in the Supreme
Court, been escalating the confirma-
tion wars. I won’t repeat all of that
history from Friday and Saturday
here, but when Harry Reid went nu-
clear, he set the Senate on a path to
this day.
So here we are with more than 200
Federal judges confirmed in the last 4
years. Again, I have been on the floor
for the last 4 hours, so I have heard
multiple people lament the pace of ju-
dicial confirmations on the floor. Some
people love it; some people hate it, but
whether you got hate mail or you got
love letters, your destination address
should be Las Vegas, NV. There is sim-
ply no equivalent or comparable event
in the confirmation escalation wars
since they were created with the
‘‘Borking’’ of Robert Bork in 1987.
There is simply no comparable event
with November of 2013 when Harry Reid
decided to make this body simply
majoritarian on confirmations.
So where do we go next? It is no se-
cret that some of my colleagues on the
left are itching to blow up the legisla-
tive filibuster. It is a slightly better
kept secret that a whole bunch of
Democrats in the Senate think this is
a really bad idea, but they are scared
to death of the activist groups that
have decided to go after DIANNE FEIN-
STEIN in the last 3 weeks as a sort of
trial run to show what happens to peo-
ple who would resist trying to turn the
Senate into a simple majoritarian
body. But I still want to at least com-
pliment those folks in this body who
started to talk openly about their de-
sire to blow up the filibuster for the
legislative process as well around here.
I think it would be a very destructive
thing to do, but I appreciate the people
who are at least talking about it ex-
plicitly.
I have been fighting about some of
this with my friend CHRIS COONS. He is
now open to blowing up the legislative
filibuster, even though he was the lead-
er of the Senate letter in—I think it
was January of 2017—in defense of the
filibuster. The position he had then,
when there was a new administration
of a different party, is the position I
had then, and it is still the position
that I have now. And regardless of
what party holds power around here in
2021 or 2025, I am still going to be de-
fending the Senate as a
supermajoritarian body that tries to
actually have a deliberative process.
So I think that my friend CHRIS is
wrong about being open to blowing up
the legislative filibuster, but I don’t
think he is wrong because he is a Dem-
ocrat. I think a whole bunch of Repub-
licans were wrong about this issue in
January of 2017, and so I fought with
them as well. I got lots of angry calls
and texts from Republican Members of
the House of Representatives in early
2017 for defending the legislative fili-
buster because the House and Senate
are supposed to be different kinds of
bodies. We have different purposes. So
my argument to Democrats now or in
January is the same as the argument I
made to Republicans in January of
2017, and that is that blowing up the
filibuster would be to functionally kill
the Senate. It would dramatically
change not just this institution but the
structure of governance in our Repub-
lic. Because without the filibuster, the
Senate becomes just another
majoritarian body, and we already
have one of those. It is called the
House of Representatives.
The House and the Senate are sup-
posed to have different complementary
functions, and if we kill the filibuster
in the Senate, we will have simple 51-
to-49 votes radically changing the di-
rection of the country. We would see
governance swings on a pendulum
where big chunks of American life
could be rewritten every 2 years with
simple 51-to-49 or 49-to-51 majority
changes and therefore new majority
votes. We would become more like a
parliamentary European system. It is a
system that has some virtues, but we
don’t have that system, and our Found-
ers didn’t pick that system on purpose.
In the age of declining trust and in-
creasing cynicism, the answer is surely
not more instability. This would de-
plete, not replenish, our declining res-
ervoirs of public trust.
Killing the deliberative structure of
the Senate would accelerate Congress’s
ongoing slow and bipartisan suicide
where fewer and fewer decisions are
made by the people’s elected represent-
atives and more and more decisions
would be made by an unelected bu-
reaucracy that the people back home
whom we represent in Nebraska or New
York or Rhode Island or Virginia—the
speeches that I have been hearing this
morning—where those folks don’t have
any power to hire or fire the people
who work in the administrative state,
and accountability of governance to
the people means that we want the
elected representatives to be making
most of those decisions, not the
unelectable bureaucracy. Even though
lots of those people are well-meaning
servants, they are simply not account-
able to the public.
Senators like JOE MANCHIN, JON
TESTER, and KYRSTEN SINEMA would
see diminished influence as the people
of West Virginia, Montana, and Ari-
zona got increasingly sidelined for even
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.351 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6539
October 25, 2020
more representation of New York and
California.
Some of my colleagues apparently
want to finish the work that Senator
Reid began. This would be to double-
down on the division, the cynicism, and
the partisanship, and they would pre-
tend that that is a day that they would
never regret. But I think it would be
really useful for more of the folks who
are thinking now of whether they are
in favor of ending the legislative fili-
buster or whether they are too scared
to stand up to the activist groups de-
manding they end the legislative fili-
buster, it would be useful for a lot
more of them to go on the record with
the things they say to me in private
about the regrets about November of
2013.
I have only been here since January
of 2015, and I have had either seven or
eight different Democrats currently
serving in this body tell me how much
they regret the vote that they took at
Harry Reid’s urging in 2013 to end the
filibuster for confirmations to the judi-
ciary.
And I understand that a junior Re-
publican Senator from Nebraska
doesn’t have a lot of sway in the Demo-
cratic conference, but maybe they
would listen to the quote of a different,
more influential Senator:
[I]f the right of free and open debate is
taken away from the minority party and the
millions of Americans who ask us to be their
voice, [then] I fear [that] the partisan atmos-
phere in Washington will be poisoned to the
point where no one will be able to agree on
anything. That does not serve anybody’s best
interest, and it certainly is not what the pa-
triots who founded this democracy had in
mind. We owe the people who sent us here
much [better] than that. We owe them much
[much] more.
I will repeat the quote:
[I]f the right of free and open debate is
taken away from the minority party and the
millions of Americans who ask us to be their
voice, [then] I fear the partisan atmosphere
in Washington will be poisoned to the point
where no one will be able to agree on any-
thing. That does not serve anybody’s . . . in-
terest, and it certainly is not what the patri-
ots who founded this democracy had in mind.
We owe the people who sent us here more
than that. We owe them much [much] more.
That quote was from the junior Sen-
ator from Illinois in 2005, Senator
Barack Obama, speaking passionately
to this body about why it was different,
why it is different, and why we have a
stewardship obligation to defend the
deliberative structure of the Senate.
Senator, then President Obama was
right then; he is right now; and I fear
that he will sadly be right in the fu-
ture, if partisan tribalists decide to
blow up the Senate and pack the Su-
preme Court.
The debate over Amy Coney Barrett
is over. We will be voting soon, but in
the coming months, the debate for a
critical piece of American governance
will start. I beg my colleagues to heed
Senator Obama’s advice. Protect Amer-
ica’s structure of three branches of
government. You lost this vote, but
please don’t burn down this institu-
tion. Again, you lost this vote under
the rules that Harry Reid created in
2013. Please don’t burn down this insti-
tution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President,
good morning to you. You stand watch-
es everywhere.
We are here, in part, because of a Su-
preme Court nomination, but we are
here also because of a Supreme Court
process that has turned foul in a con-
siderable number of ways.
I would like to spend the time that I
have with you this morning walking
through some of the history that got us
there.
With respect to the now-standard Re-
publican talking points that the only
reason that we are here today in this
partisan wrangle is because of Harry
Reid, I would submit that the spectacle
of procedural wreckage that surrounds
all three of the last Supreme Court
nominees completely belies any sug-
gestion that Senator MCCONNELL would
have respected the filibuster of a Su-
preme Court Justice. They have broken
essentially every rule that got in their
way—it didn’t matter what it was—
over and over again. And the idea that
they would break every rule but that
one simply makes no sense.
So I can see that it is sort of a cute
and clever argument to go back and
point out that Harry Reid broke the ef-
fort to stonewall all of President
Obama’s appointees to the DC Circuit
Court, which was what was going on at
the time, but the rest of the wreckage
belies that this would have been pro-
tected by Leader MCCONNELL in the
mad, headlong rush to load up the Su-
preme Court with nominees who have
been through this very, very peculiar
Supreme Court process.
To those who wonder why it is that
we talk a lot about healthcare in the
context of this nominee, look no fur-
ther than the Republican Party plat-
form that my colleagues supported,
which says that Republican Presidents
will appoint judges to reverse the
ObamaCare cases. That is the language
from their own party platform. So ex-
pect some skepticism about the sin-
cerity of Republican expressions that
they are shocked—shocked—that we
would try to tie the fate of the Afford-
able Care Act to this nominee when
they have put that in their party plat-
form.
One of the unpleasant aspects of the
process that I am about to describe has
been that the handoff to special inter-
ests of control over who gets appointed
to the Supreme Court means that there
is an audience for auditioning. Over
and over again, we have seen judges au-
dition to that audience in order to get
onto that all-important Federalist So-
ciety list or, in the case of Judge
Kavanaugh, to get escorted by Leonard
Leo, the operative of that operation,
right around the list and onto its very
top. Nobody auditioned like Brett
Kavanaugh.
But Judge Barrett made her own ef-
fort, and that was to make it very pub-
licly clear that she disagreed with Jus-
tice Roberts, the swing vote who pro-
tected ObamaCare. That mattered be-
cause the outrage in the rightwing that
their Supreme Court they thought they
had claimed actually made one deci-
sion against their political interests—a
sense of betrayal by Justice Roberts.
That was very acute.
It was into that environment that
Judge Barrett added her unsolicited
opinion—just threw it out there—that
Roberts was wrong; that the dissent
had it right. Obviously that allows us—
in fact, requires us—to draw the logical
conclusion that when she is the swing
vote, she is going to go with the minor-
ity. So she telegraphed how she would
rule in this matter. She became the
nominee. It was on the Republican
Party platform that she should reverse
the ObamaCare cases. How are we not
supposed to notice this when you say
this in all caps?
So, please, let’s not pretend that we
are making up a connection between
this appointment and the persistent
Republican attack on our present
healthcare system.
The first thing you have to under-
stand in looking at the Republican ju-
dicial selection process is that we are
now looking at three—we are now look-
ing at three nominees who have come
through this process. It began when I
was in Munich on a trip with Senator
McCain and Judiciary Chairman GRA-
HAM. He wasn’t the chairman then, I
don’t believe. But we had gone to the
Munich Security Conference together,
and word came—in fact, I believe Sen-
ator BARRASSO was there as well, who
is now presiding. Word came that Jus-
tice Scalia had died on a hunting vaca-
tion and that there was a vacancy.
It became quickly evident that
Merrick Garland, the chief judge of the
DC Circuit Court of Appeals—a very
widely respected judge, someone about
whom Republican members of the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee had said very
good things in the past, presumably a
consensus nominee—was likely to be
the nominee of President Obama, a
man who very often tried for consensus
and very often was spurned.
In this case, it did not take long for
someone to decide that was not going
to happen and, indeed, that no Obama
nominee was going to be brought for-
ward. It happened quickly but not so
quickly that a few Members of the Sen-
ate said that they would, of course,
meet with the nominee. That would be
standard practice; of course, they
would.
In any event, my recollection is that
no one did—no Republican Senator did.
That was a very sudden pivot by an en-
tire body of people to go from a normal
process to something very new and ab-
normal. In my experience, when a
whole lot of people all pivot together
to go from what is normal to some-
thing that is new and abnormal, you
look for a reason.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.352 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6540 October 25, 2020
If you see all the branches blowing in
one direction on a tree, you may be in-
doors. You may not actually be able to
feel the wind blowing. But when you
see all the branches lean, you can draw
the reasonable conclusion—in fact, you
can draw perhaps the only reasonable
conclusion—that there is a wind blow-
ing those branches, which begs the
question: What was the wind blowing
all those branches to so immediately
step out of the norms of the Senate—
not just 1 or 2 or 10 but as an entire
caucus—and pivot to this new abnor-
mal response to a Presidential nomi-
nee? To me, that is a sign. That is a
sign that political force is being ap-
plied, that a strong wind is blowing,
and that all the branches have to lean
in the same direction.
On we went through that process
with very, very strong statements
being made by judges about this newly
found principle that, during an election
year, you don’t confirm Supreme Court
Justices. They invented that new prin-
ciple—highly convenient to that mo-
ment, but they described it as a prin-
ciple.
Here is Senator DAINES in 2016: ‘‘I
don’t think it’s right to bring a nomi-
nee forward in an election year.’’ He
put it in about the strongest moral
terms that one could use. He used
terms of principle. He used the distinc-
tion between right and wrong. ‘‘I don’t
think it’s right to bring a nominee for-
ward in an election year.’’ Why? So
that the people’s voice—the people who
have already begun voting had their
voice reflected.
So that was probably—I don’t know—
maybe 8 months before the election.
Here we are closer to 8 days before the
election, and we are going through this
process, and there has been this ex-
traordinarily abrupt reversal of that
supposed principle from 2016. ‘‘I don’t
think it’s right.’’ If it is not right, why
are we doing it right now? Suddenly, it
is right in 2020.
Senator DAINES wasn’t alone. MITCH
MCCONNELL was the Senate floor or-
chestrator of all of this. He said: ‘‘Of
course, of course, the American people
should have a say in the court’s direc-
tion.’’ That is why we can’t take up
Judge Garland now—because the Amer-
ican people should have their say
months before the election. Here we
are days before the election—flips-o,
change-o. What could that mean?
Senator GRASSLEY: ‘‘The American
people shouldn’t be denied a voice.’’
That was then; this is now.
LINDSEY GRAHAM: ‘‘Hold the tape.’’
‘‘Hold my words against me,’’ the
chairman said. If an opening—here was
his rule: ‘‘If an opening comes in the
last year of President Trump’s term,
we’ll wait till the next election.’’ Could
you get clearer than that? ‘‘If an open-
ing comes in the last year of President
Trump’s term, we’ll wait till the next
election.’’ ‘‘Hold the tape.’’
TED CRUZ: ‘‘You don’t do this in an
election year.’’
So what does it signal when people
take a stand assertively on principle
that it wouldn’t be right—STEVE
DAINES; that ‘‘you don’t do this’’—TED
CRUZ; that ‘‘of course, of course, the
American people should have their
say’’—MITCH MCCONNELL and CHUCK
GRASSLEY—what does it say when peo-
ple take a stand on principle on one oc-
casion and then on the very next occa-
sion, in the very next election, at the
first opportunity, they completely re-
verse themselves on their supposed
principle?
Well, one possibility is that there has
been a minipandemic in the Senate of
hypocrisy; that somehow there is a lit-
tle germ here, and somebody brought
hypocrisy into the Republican caucus,
and everybody caught it, and they feel
an unhealthy desire to go out and vio-
late principles that they espoused on
the previous occasion. That doesn’t
seem very credible to me.
What seems more credible is that
something is blowing in the branches;
that there is a force—a political force—
at work that causes Republican Sen-
ators to take a firm stand on principle,
albeit a novel one, a peculiar one, an
unprecedented one, but in their words,
a firm stand on principle in the 2016
election, and exactly in the very next
case, in the 2020 election, completely
reverse that supposed principle. My ex-
perience in politics is that when you
see people forced to engage in hypoc-
risy in broad daylight, look for power
in the shadows.
So we began with the Garland-
Gorsuch switcheroo based on this ‘‘you
don’t do this in an election year’’ prin-
ciple. Then we went on to Judge
Kavanaugh, and the narrative has de-
veloped on the Republican side that
Judge Kavanaugh was treated very un-
fairly, as if no witness came forward to
testify in the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee that she had been assaulted by
a young Brett Kavanaugh. I don’t know
what we were supposed to do with that
information. Were we supposed to tell
the good professor: Go away. We don’t
want to hear from you. Sorry, it is a
little late. The chance that a person
headed for the Supreme Court might
have committed sexual assault is
something we don’t take at all seri-
ously. We don’t want to get to the bot-
tom of it. We don’t want to know.
This was a woman who was willing to
come and testify in front of all of
America, subject herself to the hostile
questioning of a professional pros-
ecutor hired by the Republicans just
for that occasion. She stuck to her
guns and, in my view, was credible. To
this day, I still believe her. The nature
of her testimony was very consistent
with the testimony of sexual assault
victims who have been through that
kind of an ordeal.
Do I know what happened? No. But
she was a credible witness. She was
willing to come into the Senate Judici-
ary Committee and claim that Brett
Kavanaugh assaulted her. Of course, we
had to hear from her. Republicans want
to blame Democrats for that, but seri-
ously, would you not have let her tes-
tify? Really? That does not seem very
credible.
So she came. She testified. She was
credible. Despite the rightwing having
launched their flying monkeys at her
in such vehemence, she had to leave
her house, hire private security, go
into hiding, she nevertheless came; she
nevertheless was credible.
All we asked for was an investigation
to find out what had happened, to do
our best to get to the bottom of it. It
was going to be difficult because it
happened years ago, but it would seem
to me that we owed this institution
and the Supreme Court our best effort.
Did we get a best effort? No, we got a
slipshod, truncated decision that, to
this day, the FBI refuses to answer
questions about. Why? Why not give
Dr. Blasey Ford, why not give the
American people, why not give the Su-
preme Court a best effort from the FBI
to get to the bottom of whatever hap-
pened?
There is every indication that the tip
line the FBI set up was never reviewed
and followed up on. I have been a pros-
ecutor. I have run the attorney gen-
eral’s office in Rhode Island, which is
the lead prosecutorial office for the
State. I have been the U.S. attorney for
Rhode Island, running Federal prosecu-
tions. The whole purpose of a tip line is
to bring in evidence from the public
and sort through it because every tip
line has bonkers evidence in it. But
you sort through the chaff to see if
there is any wheat there, if there is
anything that needs to be looked into.
It does not appear that the FBI
looked into anything that came in
through the tip line. It looks like the
tip line—if you could imagine the com-
ments box, it looks like they attached
the comments box directly to the
dumpster so that the tips went straight
into the waste bin. I know of no ‘‘tip’’
that got followed up on.
Once again, why? Why would the FBI
allow itself to be associated with a
truncated, incomplete investigation?
Well, they said why. They said it was
because they are not operating like an
FBI when they do this. They are oper-
ating as an agent of the White House.
They are operating at the White
House’s bidding when they are doing
these confirmation investigations.
They don’t behave like the FBI then
and follow their procedures. They do as
they are told. That is a pretty strong
clue and, once again, a signal of power-
ful political forces at work to try to
cram nominees, even very troubled
ones, onto the Supreme Court.
Then we come to Judge Barrett, who
had to be the subject of this massive
flips-o, change-o of what was right for
our traditional nominees in an election
year and enumerable minor broken
rules along the way.
As I said, in all three of these recent
nominations, there is a trail of proce-
dural wreckage through the Senate. I
don’t think my colleagues hate Senate
procedure. I don’t think they get a
form of malicious glee out of smashing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.353 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6541
October 25, 2020
Senate procedure. When you see a lot
of procedural wreckage in the Senate,
look for a motive. Look for a force.
Look for a force.
Three for three, we have seen power-
ful signals of a motive force at work.
Sure enough, when you look at the
process itself, you see some real pecu-
liarities.
First of all, when these judges got se-
lected, they had something in common.
They all went through a process hosted
at the Federalist Society and run by a
person named Leonard Leo. The Wall
Street Journal editorial page editor de-
scribed this relationship as a subcon-
tractor. The judicial selection got sub-
contracted out to this private organi-
zation and its operative—subcon-
tracted out. The White House counsel
said this organization was insourced to
the White House. Leonard Leo was put
on temporary leave from the Federalist
Society—like that is a big deal—to su-
pervise the process.
Can we just stop for a minute and ac-
cept that it is weird that any private
organization would be made the sub-
contractor for the selection of Supreme
Court Justices? I don’t care if it is the
Girl Scouts of America. It is weird and
it is wrong that a private organization
should be the subcontractor for select-
ing judges.
And it gets weirder and wronger
when you see the big anonymous
money pouring into that organization.
The Washington Post took a pretty
good, thorough look into this scheme,
and they said that the whole scheme
was $250 million worth of dark money—
$250 million. They described it as ‘‘a
conservative activist’s behind-the-
scenes campaign to remake the Na-
tion’s courts.’’ On whose behalf, one
wonders. But you don’t know because
of the $250 million, most of it is anony-
mous money, what we call around here
‘‘dark money.’’
You have the last three nominees se-
lected by a private organization, secre-
tively, which is also taking huge dona-
tions from anonymous donors. The
whole scheme runs up to $250 million,
according to the Washington Post.
That is a pretty big deal. If you can’t
see that that is a recipe for corruption,
you are wearing blinders, because the
idea that a private organization be-
comes designated to pick who is on the
Supreme Court and then takes big
anonymous donations is a prescription
for disaster.
But it does produce nominees. At the
end, you get your selection—one, two,
three. Then, those nominees get TV
campaigns run for them. There is a big
PR effort, a political effort, and that is
run by something called the Judicial
Crisis Network, which has as its opera-
tive Carrie Severino. Judicial Crisis
Network gets boatloads of anonymous
money also. You have the same prob-
lem—a private organization, a secret
organization that takes boatloads of
anonymous money having a central
role in campaigning for these nomi-
nees. That is also abnormal. This is
new, this is peculiar, and this is wrong,
in my view.
By the way, when that Washington
Post article came out, Leonard Leo got
blown like an agent in a covert oper-
ation. And to protect the Federalist
Society, he had to jump out, go do
something else. So he went out to go
do dark money-funded voter suppres-
sion. Guess who jumped into his role
for Judge Barrett? Well, well, well,
none other than Ms. Severino.
The Judicial Crisis Network offices
are next to the Federal Society’s of-
fices—same building, same floor.
How big is the money? Well, here is a
little filing from the Judicial Crisis
Network. This is from IRS Form 990.
Look at this, a contribution for $17.9
million—$17.9 million. Do we know who
gave them $17.9 million to put on TV
ads for a judicial nominee who had
been selected by the dark money group
behind the Federalist Society? We do
not. We do not. But somebody wrote a
$17 million check to support a PR cam-
paign for a Supreme Court nominee.
How do we know they didn’t have busi-
ness before the Supreme Court? How do
we know that when they are anony-
mous?
By the way, they did it again. Some-
body gave $17 million to push off Gar-
land and help Gorsuch. And then an-
other 17-plus million dollars came in
for the troubled Kavanaugh nomina-
tion. Do we know that it is not the
same donor? No, we don’t. It could be
the same donor, in which case some-
body gave $35 million anonymously to
influence the makeup of our U.S. Su-
preme Court.
And they may have business before
the Court. There is a case called the
Caperton case in which the Supreme
Court said you had a due process right
not to have Judges who had big money
spent on their behalf to get the office
rule in your case. This looks like a
Caperton problem—$35 million spent by
conceivably one donor who may very
well have business before the Court.
Why would you do this? Why would
you do this? Why would you ever allow
judicial nominees to be selected this
way, funded by dark money, anony-
mously, controlled by private, secre-
tive organizations? Why would you do
that? Why is that acceptable at all? I
submit that were the shoe on the other
foot, the other side would have its hair
on fire about such a performance.
The fact that this seems OK is yet
another indication of the branches
blowing in the wind here because it is
not OK by any objective or reasonable
standard. The only thing that makes
this OK is if that political force makes
this OK in the same way they made it
OK to reverse the 2016 principle on the
very next occasion in 2020.
When you see hypocrisy in the day-
light, look for power in the shadows.
It doesn’t end once their judges are
selected and once the judges have their
campaigns paid for by $17-million
check writers. When they are on the
Court, guess who shows up in orches-
trated choruses. Groups funded by dark
money. In some cases, they are the liti-
gating lawyer group. In some cases,
they come on afterward as what are
called friends of the court, amici cu-
riae—friends of the court.
We had one case that I looked at
about the Consumer Financial Protec-
tion Bureau, where it turned out that a
whole bunch of amici curiae showed
up—friends of the court, a whole bunch
of them. So I did this graphic in the
brief that I filed. It showed 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 briefs filed in that case
by nominally separate groups, all fund-
ed by the same organization, Donors
Trust, 8 out of 11 funded by the Bradley
Foundation, and more overlapping do-
nors throughout. This was just my
work.
The Center for Media and Democracy
went back and did an even more thor-
ough drill down and came to even more
astonishing conclusions about the
overlap between the funding of these
groups showing up in these orches-
trated choruses.
By the way, they don’t tell the Court
that they are all funded by the same
groups. They don’t tell the other par-
ties that they are all funded by the
same groups. There is actually a disclo-
sure in the briefing rule that says you
are supposed to disclose who paid for
your briefing. They use that to mean
who paid for the printing of the brief.
So you can take a million-dollar con-
tribution from somebody or, who
knows, a $17-million contribution from
somebody, and then pay a couple of
thousand bucks yourself to have the
brief published and disclose nothing to
the Court, nothing to the parties about
who is really behind these phony-balo-
ney, trumped-up, front-group friends of
the court. But they do provide an edu-
cating chorus for the judges and tell
them how to rule.
By the way, the Center for Media and
Democracy showed that not only is the
funding going to these groups, but the
same funding is going over there to the
Federalist Society to support this judi-
cial selection operation. And from Ju-
dicial Crisis Network, you have the
interchangeable Leonard Leo and
Carrie Severino. This looks like a sin-
gle scheme—a single scheme through
which a small group of very secretive,
big money donors, donors capable of
writing a $17-million check to help in-
fluence who is on the Supreme Court,
get together and control the selection
of Supreme Court Justices, fund the
PR campaigns and the TV advertise-
ments for those Supreme Court Jus-
tices, and then show up through front
groups to pitch the Justices on what
they want from them.
That is about as unhealthy a situa-
tion for a Court as one could have.
Again, we are like the frog—the alleged
frog in the pot. It has gotten worse and
worse. It has stunk more and more, but
it happened kind of gradually and we,
for some reason, acted as if this is
somehow normal. There is nothing nor-
mal about this.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.355 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6542 October 25, 2020
As a lawyer, I spent a good deal of
my life in appellate courts. I have ar-
gued in the U.S. Supreme Court. I have
argued in several circuit courts of ap-
peals. I argued over and over before our
State supreme court. To the extent I
had a specialty, it was appellate law.
As the Governor’s legal counsel in
Rhode Island, I was involved in picking
judges for the State courts on the Judi-
ciary Committee. I have been involved
in picking judges for the Federal
courts.
Folks, this is weird. This is not right.
Nobody behaves this way. Nobody
farms out the selection of judges to pri-
vate interest groups that don’t disclose
their donors and take up to $250 mil-
lion into the scheme, which is accord-
ing to the Washington Post. It is weird
enough that people feel the need to run
TV ads for judicial nominees, but when
they are taking a check for $17 million
or two checks for $17 million from an
anonymous donor or, maybe, two anon-
ymous donors, if you think that is
weird, it is because it is. That
shouldn’t happen anywhere around a
court.
There are a lot of high-minded
speeches about the importance of the
judiciary and its independence and all
of that. The most important standard
that a court must meet is that it is not
a pantomime court, a pantomime court
in which the rituals of adjudication get
acted out. People come to the bench,
wearing their robes. They hear the ar-
guments, render decisions, read the
briefs, but at the end of the day, the
decision is cooked by big special inter-
est influence that has insinuated its
way into the Court by controlling the
selection of judges, by funding the PR
campaigns for those judges, and by
being the orchestrating force behind
the amicus curiae.
You might think that I am being a
little aggressive in suggesting that
they are orchestrated. Well, do you re-
member this group, the Bradley Foun-
dation, that I showed you from my Su-
preme Court checklist that funded 8
out of the 11 groups in that case? Here
is a memo of a grant it is giving to
something called the Judicial Edu-
cation Project, which is a sister organi-
zation to that same Judicial Crisis Net-
work. This is a little bit of a pea in a
shell game, so forgive me, but they are
directly related groups. The staff rec-
ommendation says that, at this highest
of legal levels, it is a request for fund-
ing for amicus curiae in a case—in sev-
eral cases—at the Supreme Court. It is
very important to orchestrate high-cal-
iber amicus efforts—orchestrate.
For Pete’s sake, the secret funders
themselves use the word ‘‘orchestrate.’’
So something is up. Something is not
right. Something is rotten in Denmark.
If the American people are good enough
to entrust us with the ability to answer
their questions about this mess, we
will answer their questions about this
mess. I will tell you that I cannot get
my questions answered, not without
gavels, not in this Senate, not in these
committees. Yet I think it matters if
an individual wrote $35 million worth
of checks to influence the makeup of
our U.S. Supreme Court to know
whether they have business before the
Court, to know who they were, and to
be able to even do the Caperton anal-
ysis of whether somebody’s due process
rights have been infringed by influence.
So, in some respects, this is the end
of things. This is the third of three
nominees who have all had the same
characteristics. They have been se-
lected through this scheme. They have
been campaigned for through this
scheme. They have generated bizarre
procedural behavior in this Senate—all
three, three for three. It is like the tri-
ple trifecta—three judges, three char-
acteristics: selected, campaigned for,
bizarre procedural anomalies.
When you see that kind of behavior,
that means there are a lot of branches
leaning the same way, and if that
doesn’t mean the wind is blowing, then
give me a better explanation. I think
there is a foul wind blowing, and we
need to find out who is behind it, and
we need to find out what it means for
our treasured Supreme Court.
I will close by saying that the results
are already coming in. Even before
Judge Barrett gets to the Court, the re-
sults have already been coming in from
this effort.
I did an article some time ago that
we had pretty thoroughly fact-checked,
red-teamed, and reviewed that at the
time said there were 72 decisions by the
U.S. Supreme Court, under Chief Jus-
tice Roberts, that had the following
characteristics: One, they were 5-to-4
decisions—the narrowest, barest major-
ity. Ordinarily, a Supreme Court likes
to see bigger majorities than that be-
cause it is conducive to the integrity
and strength and credibility of the
Court. There were 72 5-to-4 decisions.
They had an additional char-
acteristic in that they were not just 5
to 4 but a partisan 5 to 4. No Demo-
cratic appointee joined the 5. So, again,
if you are an institutionalist, you look
at that, and you think, hmm, maybe
that is not the Court putting its best
foot forward. That is an awful lot of
partisan 5-to-4 decisions.
Then the third characteristic is that
you can identify quite readily in those
cases a big Republican donor’s inter-
est—something that one would want by
way of an outcome. What we calculated
at the time in that article is that the
score in those 72 5-to-4 partisan deci-
sions with a big Republican donor’s in-
terest implicated was 72 to 0—some
pitching balls and calling balls and
strikes. It was 72 to 0. That is a route,
and we have been tracking it since
then. I put the number now to 80 to 0
because the article was written some
time ago. So now we are at 80 partisan
5-to-4 cases in which a big Republican
donor’s interest was implicated and in
which, by 80 to 0, the Big Interests
won.
Now, some of these are pretty fla-
grant. I think Citizens United is going
to go down in history as a disgraceful
decision of the U.S. Supreme Court,
sort of the political equivalent of
Lochner.
Shelby County, in which the Court
made up facts in order to strip a sec-
tion out of the Voting Rights Act, in
turn, unleashed voter suppression laws
across the States that had been held
back by the preclearance provisions
that the Court summarily decided 5 to
4 that it didn’t like any longer.
Janus, which is the case that took
down a 40-year-old precedent involving
labor law in which legal groups had an
astonishing role, actually went
through four cases along the way. It is
a long saga, and I won’t burden this
speech with that now. At the end of the
day, the lawyers for the labor move-
ment, while walking up to the Supreme
Court for argument that day, knew
perfectly well how the Court was going
to rule. That is not how courts should
operate.
Heller, the gun case, was 5 to 4. A
former Supreme Court Justice had de-
scribed the theory that Heller had
adopted as a fraud on the public, but
Heller turned a fraud on the public into
the law of the land. Guess what—the
NRA is very active as a donor in these
fights. The NRA was all over the
Kavanaugh nomination in particular.
So you had these flagrant decisions,
and I just mentioned those 4, but there
are 80. That leaves 76 others. They are
usually—often, I should say—about
power. They are often about moving
power into corporations, expanding
corporate power, allowing unlimited
money into elections—allowing dark,
anonymous, unlimited money to oper-
ate in elections.
Who benefits from that? Entities
with unlimited money and a motive to
spend it like, say, the fossil fuel indus-
try.
As for intervening in elections and
allowing bulk gerrymandering to pro-
ceed, multiple courts have figured out
how to stop that nefarious practice. It
is, actually, not complicated when you
are dealing with bulk gerrymandering
and how to stop it and, over and over
again, the bulk gerrymandering efforts
to take an entire delegation and try to
cook it so that it doesn’t represent the
popular vote in that State.
Over and over again, courts have seen
through that. They figured out how to
respond to it until it got to the Su-
preme Court. Then, with 5 to 4, sorry,
folks, we are not going to take an in-
terest in that. Keep at it. Voter sup-
pression will tear down the
preclearance provisions of the Voting
Rights Act. All of this election mis-
chief that leans heavily to supporting
the Republican side has been sup-
ported.
With deregulation, if you are a big
polluter and if you are a big donor, you
probably don’t like regulatory agen-
cies. You probably would like to have
some more freedom from regulatory
agencies. Over and over again, these
decisions try to hurt the independence
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.356 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6543
October 25, 2020
and strength of regulatory agencies—
over and over.
Then the last is the civil jury. My
God, the civil jury is in the Constitu-
tion, for Pete’s sake. We fought so hard
over the civil jury that people didn’t
want to adopt the Constitution until
there was a Seventh Amendment that
protected it in the Bill of Rights. Pro-
tecting the civil jury was in the Dec-
laration of Independence. Interference
of the civil jury by the Crown was a
cause of war in the Revolutionary Era.
The civil jury is an institution of
governance in this country. It is a big
deal. Yet these supposed originalists on
the Court keep tearing down, whittling
away, diminishing, and degrading the
civil jury because—guess what—if you
are a big, powerful, well-funded lob-
byist, greased corporation, or interest
group, you can march around this place
like a King, throwing your money
around, getting everybody to bow and
scrape for you, with lobbyists smooth-
ing the path for you. You can wander
into the executive branch if you have
the right control and get your stooges
appointed to the regulatory agencies.
You can be powerful. You can get your
way.
Then you have to suffer the indignity
of showing up in a courtroom where
you have to be treated equally before
the law, where what you say has to be
put to the test of perjury, where you
have to turn over your real documents
and not phonied-up position papers,
where, if you tamper with the jury, it
is a crime.
No wonder big special interests don’t
like civil juries, and no wonder this
Court, 5 to 4, over and over again,
chops away at the institution of the
civil jury, but don’t tell me that you
are being an institutionalist or an
originalist when you are attacking an
institution in the Constitution—in the
Seventh Amendment, the Bill of
Rights. That is the work that these 80
5-to-4 partisan decisions have been
doing. It has been to turn this Court,
more and more, into the servant of big
corporations. Guess what. Americans
are paying attention.
There was a poll a little while ago
that asked whether the Supreme Court
favors corporations more than people
or people more than corporations. The
poll showed, 49 to 7, that 7 times as
many Americans think the Supreme
Court views corporations more favor-
ably than people than say the Court
views people more favorably than cor-
porations. So something is out. Some-
thing is up. A foul wind is blowing.
There is way too much anonymous
money in and around this Court proc-
ess.
It is, by the way, at the same time,
the only Court that does not have a
code of ethics in the Federal system.
When Judge Barrett is elevated from
her circuit court to the Supreme Court,
she will go from a court that has a ju-
dicial code of conduct to a Court that
does not. She will go from a court that
requires the transparent disclosure of
gifts, travel, and hospitality to a Court
that requires less disclosure not only
than circuit courts but less disclosure
than Cabinet officials and less disclo-
sure than Members of Congress. The
highest Court has the lowest standards
for ethics and transparency.
So, to all of my colleagues who have
given speeches about the integrity and
value of the Supreme Court and our ju-
dicial branch, I hope you will help us as
we try to look at what on Earth is ex-
actly going on over there—why amici
curiae show up in Court without dis-
closing who they are really there for;
why $17-plus million checks are being
written by anonymous individuals,
what the relationship is between the
$250 million that poured into Leonard
Leo’s effort and who got chosen, and
what the expectations were of the peo-
ple who spent $250 million to influence
the makeup of the Supreme Court; and
why the highest Court has the lowest
standards for ethics and for trans-
parency.
We are not in a good place right now
with this Court. The things that are
happening are truly bizarre, unprece-
dented. It is bad enough that there
should be dark money in elections—but
dark money in judicial selections?
Please defend that if you think that is
right. If you think that big special in-
terests should be able to write big,
anonymous checks and, thereby, gain a
voice in the composition of the U.S.
Supreme Court, please come and defend
that proposition, because I don’t think
you can.
It has never been the case in the Su-
preme Court before. It has never been
the case in the circuit courts of appeal
before. It has never been the case in
State supreme courts, in my experi-
ence.
The dark-money influence in and
around the Court is unprecedented, and
it is wrong, and the American people
are entitled to the truth about it.
I see I have gone into my next speak-
er’s time a bit. So I will yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
DAINES). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, last
Tuesday, in my home State of Wis-
consin, in-person early voting started.
Over the past week, people have
showed up to vote in record numbers,
as they have across our entire country,
because they want to make sure their
voices are heard. Why? Because they
know how high the stakes are for them
in this election, an election that will
determine our next President and con-
trol of the U.S. Senate, an election
that is just 1 week away.
My position on President Trump’s
Supreme Court nomination has been
very clear since the tragic passing of
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Voters
across America should be allowed to
cast their ballots first and have their
votes counted before this Senate votes
on a lifetime appointment to our Na-
tion’s highest Court. The people should
be heard first, but it is clear that the
majority leader and a majority of my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
have no interest in listening to the
people. That is why they are rushing
and ramming President Trump’s Su-
preme Court nomination forward just
days before the election.
This rigged and illegitimate process
is wrong, and it follows a pattern of the
majority leader and Senate Repub-
licans abusing their power to break
their own standards on Supreme Court
nominations.
Back in 2016, 8 months before the
election, President Obama nominated
Merrick Garland to a seat on the U.S.
Supreme Court after the passing of
Justice Antonin Scalia. Judge Garland
is a highly experienced and qualified
judge, and I have no doubt that had he
been given the opportunity, he would
have earned more than 60 votes in the
U.S. Senate. But he was never given
that opportunity because the majority
leader decided to deny Judge Garland a
hearing and a vote in the Senate.
With the standards broken on the
Garland nomination, the majority
leader established a new one: no Su-
preme Court nominations by the Sen-
ate during an election year. Here we
are in an election year. However, Ma-
jority Leader MCCONNELL has broken
his own rule and created yet another
new one. Instead of applying the same
standard that he imposed on President
Obama with the Garland nomination in
March of 2016, 8 months before an elec-
tion, he created a new standard now for
President Trump with his nomination
of Judge Amy Coney Barrett made 39
days before an election. The majority
leader is rushing President Trump’s
nominee forward, with a Senate vote as
people are voting, as we stand 1 week—
1 week—before election day.
What is the rush? My home State is
a national red zone for COVID–19. We
are experiencing our worst outbreak of
infections since the pandemic began,
breaking records for new cases, hos-
pitalizations, and deaths. Right now,
people want action, support, and relief
from Washington.
The House passed the Heroes Act
over 5 months ago. Was there a rush for
the Senate majority to take action to
confront the public health and eco-
nomic crisis that has only gotten worse
since then? No, this legislation has
been sitting on the majority leader’s
desk since May, while businesses have
closed, millions have lost their jobs,
and hundreds of thousands of Ameri-
cans have died.
At the beginning of this month, the
House, once again, passed an updated
version of the Heroes Act to provide
local communities and frontline
healthcare workers with the support
they need to stop the spread of this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.358 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6544 October 25, 2020
deadly virus. This legislation provides
support to workers, families, schools,
local governments, and small busi-
nesses.
Was there a rush from the Senate
majority to take action? No, instead,
the majority leader told the White
House not to support this legislation
because it would divide the other side
of the aisle and they needed to focus on
pushing this Supreme Court nomina-
tion forward before the election.
What is the hurry? My colleagues on
the other side of the aisle have been
trying to repeal the Affordable Care
Act and take away people’s healthcare
since I came to the Senate back in 2013.
I remember that vote to repeal the Af-
fordable Care Act well. It was 2017,
right here on the Senate floor. As
President Trump and Senate Repub-
licans sought to repeal the Affordable
Care Act, Senator John McCain did
something we are not seeing from the
majority now with this illegitimate
Supreme Court nomination process.
Senator McCain stood by his principles
and gave a thumbs-down to repealing
our Nation’s healthcare law.
President Trump’s response has been
to try to do what the American people
will not let this Senate do. In 2015,
President Trump made clear his inten-
tions with Supreme Court nominations
when he said: ‘‘If I win the Presidency,
my judicial appointments will do the
right thing, unlike Bush’s appointee
John Roberts, on ObamaCare.’’
In May of this year he said: ‘‘We
want to terminate healthcare under
ObamaCare.’’
The day after he announced his nomi-
nation of Judge Barrett, he tweeted
that the Supreme Court invalidating
the Affordable Care Act would be ‘‘a
big WIN for the USA!’’
Just last week, he said he would like
to ‘‘terminate’’ the Affordable Care Act
and ‘‘we have a very good chance of
doing it.’’
He is right, but that is the problem.
President Trump, with his Department
of Justice, has supported a Republican
lawsuit to overturn the Affordable Care
Act completely. On November 10, 1
week after the election, the Trump-
backed lawsuit will come before the
U.S. Supreme Court. Judge Barrett has
a record of criticizing and opposing the
previous Supreme Court decisions that
have upheld the Affordable Care Act. It
is clear as day that the majority leader
and Senate Republicans are driving a
vote on the President’s Supreme Court
nomination in order to do what Trump
wants—overturn the Affordable Care
Act completely, terminate people’s
healthcare, and take away protections
for people with preexisting health con-
ditions.
Here is what is at stake if Judge Bar-
rett does what Trump and Senate Re-
publicans have been trying to do for
years. Over 186,000 Wisconsinites have
been infected with COVID–19, which
could now be considered a preexisting
health condition. These people need the
guaranteed protections that our Af-
fordable Care Act provides, and they
cannot afford to have the Supreme
Court terminate their healthcare. If
the Affordable Care Act is overturned,
over 133 million Americans with pre-
existing health conditions could stand
to lose their guaranteed protections or
be charged more, including more than 2
million Wisconsinites who have pre-
existing health conditions.
This issue is personal to me, as it is
for so many others. When I was 9 years
old, I got sick—really sick. I was in the
hospital for 3 months. I eventually re-
covered. But when it came to health in-
surance, it was like I had a scarlet let-
ter. My grandparents, who had raised
me, couldn’t find a policy that would
cover me, not from any insurer and not
at any price, all because I was a child
who had been labeled with those terri-
fying words—‘‘preexisting health con-
dition.’’
This is also personal for Chelsey from
Seymour, WI, whose daughter Zoe was
born with a congenital heart defect.
Right now, thanks to the Affordable
Care Act, Zoe is guaranteed access to
coverage without being denied or
charged more. Chelsey wrote to me:
‘‘I’m pleading with you as a mother to
fight for the kids in Wisconsin with
pre-existing [health] conditions that
are counting on you to protect that
right.’’
Her fight is my fight today. No par-
ent or grandparent should have to lay
awake at night wondering if the
healthcare they have today for them-
selves and their children and grand-
children will be there tomorrow. The
fact is, more children have become un-
insured in every year of the Trump ad-
ministration, and striking down the
Affordable Care Act would be the final,
devastating blow to children’s
healthcare.
If President Trump succeeds with his
lawsuit and gets a ruling from the per-
son he is putting on the Supreme
Court, Judge Barrett, an estimated
800,000 children would lose healthcare
insurance.
When Congress passed the Affordable
Care Act over a decade ago, I led the ef-
fort in the House to include a provision
that now allows young people to re-
main on their parents’ health insur-
ance until they turn 26. In Wisconsin,
that means over 40,000 young adults in
their twenties who have been infected
with COVID–19. Many of these young
people are likely already on their par-
ents’ health insurance plan or are re-
ceiving premium tax credits provided
by the Affordable Care Act to lower
costs and make healthcare more af-
fordable.
Recently, I heard the story of Amy
from Neenah, WI. Her daughter is a
nursing student at Marquette Univer-
sity in Milwaukee. She is on her moth-
er’s insurance plan, and they are wor-
ried that if the Senate shoves this
nomination forward and Judge Barrett
does what President Trump says she
will do, this young nursing student and
future frontline healthcare worker will
be kicked off her mother’s insurance
and lose access to her healthcare.
Kirsten from Green Bay, WI, told me
her story of being diagnosed with a
very serious heart defect when she was
just 11 days old. By the time she was 13
years old, she had undergone 17
angioplasties. Before the Affordable
Care Act was passed, she struggled to
keep insurance coverage, and she
doesn’t want to go back to the days
when insurance companies wrote their
own rules and could choose to deny
people coverage, charge people more,
or set annual or lifetime limits on peo-
ple’s healthcare.
Kirsten, who is now 24 years old, said:
Amy Coney Barrett has made it clear that
she opposes the [Affordable Care Act]. With
this nomination, the Republican Party is ac-
tively saying that our lives do not matter. If
a decision is made on the Supreme Court
nominee before the election, the American
people are taken out of the selection.
The message I have heard from Wis-
consin has been clear. People want to
be able to vote before the Senate votes.
People want their voices to be heard.
People want their healthcare pro-
tected, and they certainly don’t want
it taken away by President Trump or
his nominee to the Supreme Court dur-
ing a deadly pandemic that has taken
over 1,700 lives in my home State of
Wisconsin and over 221,000 American
lives.
I would remind my friends on the
other side of the aisle that for the
women I have spoken about today, as
well as all American women, if the Af-
fordable Care Act is terminated, insur-
ance companies could once again
charge women more than men, and in-
surance companies could stop covering
basic services, like maternity care,
cancer screenings, and contraception.
The threat this nominee poses to wom-
en’s health cannot be overstated.
The threat isn’t limited to the Af-
fordable Care Act; it extends beyond
that. President Trump took office with
a promise to nominate Justices and
judges who would overturn Roe v.
Wade. He has nominated Judge Bar-
rett, and her judicial record reveals a
firm disagreement with the Supreme
Court’s five decades of established con-
stitutional protections for women’s re-
productive rights.
Let’s all be honest with the Amer-
ican people. Since day one of this ad-
ministration, a woman’s constitutional
right and freedom to make her own
healthcare choices, including access to
birth control, has been under assault.
We know what Amy Coney Barrett’s
personal views are, and I know that
some of you support her for them. But
let’s be clear. I don’t oppose her be-
cause of her personal views. What I do
oppose is the phony game that is being
played where the people pushing this
nomination forward pretend that this
nominee is simply a blank slate and
will consider nothing more than words
on a page in her Court decisions con-
cerning women’s reproductive health.
Right now, in States across the coun-
try, Roe v. Wade is under attack, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.360 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6545
October 25, 2020
millions of women are at risk of losing
the freedom to make their own
healthcare decisions without inter-
ference from politicians playing doc-
tor. Dozens of abortion rights cases are
headed toward the Supreme Court as
we speak. The stakes could not be
higher for women’s health than they
are right now with this nomination.
We all know what Judge Barrett’s ju-
dicial record is, and her public advo-
cacy is clear. This is a nominee who
has been fundamentally hostile to-
wards reproductive health and rights.
That is what is relevant here because
our Supreme Court plays an essential
role in protecting and upholding civil
rights and civil liberties, including the
constitutional right for all women to
make their own personal healthcare de-
cisions and to have access to safe and
legal reproductive care.
The least this nominee’s Senate sup-
porters could do is be honest with the
American people. We all know that, if
given the opportunity, a Justice Bar-
rett would overturn Roe v. Wade. Don’t
pretend you don’t know how she will
come down on this issue. You should at
least have the courage of your convic-
tions and say to the people who are
voting right now in this election that
you support Amy Coney Barrett’s nom-
ination because you support over-
turning Roe v. Wade, too, and you
know she will help do it.
Just as I don’t trust this nominee to
protect people’s healthcare or women’s
reproductive rights, I have no faith in
Judge Barrett to respect the progress
that the LGBTQ community has
worked so hard to achieve.
Unlike President Trump’s nominee,
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg had a
strong belief in equality for all, which
was reflected in her life’s work and in
her judicial record on LGBTQ rights
issues. In June, we again saw real
progress in the Supreme Court with a
landmark victory for justice and equal-
ity when the Supreme Court ruled 6 to
3 that workplace discrimination
against LGBTQ people is wrong and
our Nation’s civil rights laws forbid it.
But we have a lot more work to do.
LGBTQ people in many States can still
be evicted from their homes or denied
services simply because of who they
are or whom they love. The House
passed the bipartisan Equality Act to
end this kind of discrimination well
over a year ago, but that, too, has been
in the majority leader’s legislative
graveyard and has not even received a
vote in the Senate because he is afraid
it just might pass.
Here we are today moving forward on
a Supreme Court nominee who I be-
lieve is a real threat to LGBTQ
rights—again, not because of her per-
sonal preference to oppose marriage
equality; rather, because she has open-
ly and publicly defended the dissenters
in the Supreme Court’s landmark
Obergefell case by questioning the
Court’s role in even deciding that case.
Earlier this month, two of the dis-
senters in that case whom Judge Bar-
rett defended previously—Justices
Thomas and Alito—came out and at-
tacked the Court’s 2015 decision, which
declared that same-sex couples have a
constitutional right to marry under
the 14th Amendment guarantee to
equal protection under the law.
We just celebrated the 5-year anni-
versary of marriage equality becoming
the law of the land, and I have no faith
in Judge Barrett to protect this con-
stitutional right.
President Trump wants to overturn
the Affordable Care Act completely
and take away people’s healthcare and
protections for preexisting health con-
ditions in the middle of a deadly pan-
demic. This President wants to over-
turn Roe v. Wade and have the govern-
ment take away reproductive freedoms
for women. He has done nothing to
move equality and fairness forward for
the LGBTQ community and has worked
to turn back the clock on hard-won
progress. Judge Barrett has been nomi-
nated and will likely be confirmed by
this Senate to do what President
Trump wants. This nominee’s complete
and total unwillingness to show any
independence from the President
makes that clear to me.
I believe it is wrong for Senate Re-
publicans to rush this confirmation
vote before the American people have
voted and our next President and the
next Senate have taken office. I oppose
this illegitimate process, and I oppose
Judge Barrett’s confirmation for a life-
time appointment to our highest Court
because I do not have faith in her being
a fair and independent Supreme Court
Justice for the American people.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I thank
the Presiding Officer for the recogni-
tion today and thank you very much
for being here.
Today, the Senate is gathered in the
middle of an unprecedented pandemic.
More than 220,000 Americans have died,
millions more have been infected, and
millions more are out of work because
of the resulting economic crisis. These
are some of the hardest times to fall
upon this Nation in decades. People are
hurting. They are scared, they are ex-
hausted, and they are looking for help.
Millions of Americans are also look-
ing around asking how they can help in
their communities. They are stepping
up, whether it is as members of the es-
sential workforce, as healthcare work-
ers, or by donating their time or re-
sources to a charity or local food bank.
We are seeing the best of this country.
Here in the Senate, we, too, have the
power to do something to help. On a
much larger scale, we have the power
and the duty. We could do something
big to help beat this virus, to help peo-
ple and businesses get back on their
feet, get the kids back in school, to
help make life easier for the millions
who are struggling.
Yes, the Senate is gathered in the
middle of a pandemic, but we aren’t
gathered here by the majority leader to
do anything to help the American peo-
ple. We aren’t gathered here to do the
hard work, to negotiate, to com-
promise, and to pass an urgently need-
ed COVID–19 relief package that Amer-
icans are clamoring for—no. Instead,
we are gathered here today to fast-
track the confirmation of a far-right
judge onto the U.S. Supreme Court, in
the middle of a pandemic, 8 days before
the conclusion of a Presidential elec-
tion, with tens of millions of ballots al-
ready having been cast. It is shameful.
This body has truly lost its way.
The American people are looking on
in anger and disbelief as the Senate
majority focuses on this nomination
just 4 years after the majority in no
uncertain terms said that the Senate
should not consider a Supreme Court
nominee 8 full months before the elec-
tion. Yes, that is what Senate Majority
Leader MITCH MCCONNELL said—the
Senate should not consider President
Obama’s Supreme Court nominee a full
8 months before the election. But now
he says we should install President
Trump’s nominee 8 days before the
election. How did we get here? Why
would Republicans so flagrantly vio-
late their own rules and violate the le-
gitimacy of the Court and Senate for
this nominee? To solve that mystery,
we have actually got a clue. It is on the
Supreme Court schedule.
On November 10, the Supreme Court
will hear oral arguments in a suit,
brought by Republican attorneys gen-
eral and supported by the Trump ad-
ministration, to destroy the Affordable
Care Act. Three years after the Senate
Republicans tried and failed to repeal
the Affordable Care Act in Congress,
they are now trying to terminate the
law in the courts. Their relentless pur-
suit to destroy the Nation’s healthcare
law knows no end, and they need to get
their Supreme Court nominee onto the
Bench in time to hear their case.
You have heard it many times over
the last few weeks, but it bears repeat-
ing, what is happening right now, be-
cause it is stunning. Senate Repub-
licans are rushing another far-right
judge onto the bench days before the
election and all in the effort to cement
a conservative majority on the Su-
preme Court to destroy the Affordable
Care Act in the middle of a pandemic.
This is all taking place under the di-
rection of a President who has stated
that the coronavirus pandemic ‘‘affects
virtually nobody.’’ That is the Presi-
dent’s direct quote—‘‘affects virtually
nobody.’’ That is what he is saying
about the pandemic.
Republicans want to rip away
healthcare from millions of people in
the middle of a public health crisis
that has killed more than 220,000 Amer-
icans. They want to take away protec-
tions from millions of people living
with preexisting conditions in the mid-
dle of a pandemic—a pandemic that has
caused millions more Americans who
have contracted COVID–19 to now have
a new preexisting condition.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.361 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6546 October 25, 2020
The President openly admits he
wants the Supreme Court to do what
Republicans in Congress couldn’t do,
and that is to demolish the ACA. ‘‘It
will be so good if they end it.’’ That is
the President’s quote. He said that on
60 Minutes. ‘‘It will be so good if they
end it,’’ speaking about what he wants
the Supreme Court to do and what his
Justice Department is arguing.
And the President and Republicans in
Congress won’t have any plan to re-
place what they want to destroy. After
all these years of trying to end the Af-
fordable Care Act, including a 2-year
period when the Republican Party held
control in the House, Senate, and
White House, they still don’t have a re-
placement for the Affordable Care Act.
If Republicans succeed and this Su-
preme Court nominee joins an increas-
ingly conservative Court in striking
down the ACA, the results would be
catastrophic for my home State of New
Mexico. The estimated 834,700 New
Mexicans with preexisting benefits
would face higher costs, fewer benefits,
and could have trouble finding cov-
erage.
Overturning the ACA would imme-
diately end coverage for millions of
Americans who became eligible for
Medicaid through the Medicaid expan-
sion. In fact, in my State of New Mex-
ico, 250,000 people have coverage under
that expansion. Seniors getting pre-
scription drugs could no longer afford
their medications.
It is people like Jeanne, an Albu-
querque-based senior who told me re-
cently:
Now, like many seniors, I take a medica-
tion that is so expensive that I would reach
the donut hole every year. I can’t afford to
pay for that medication out of pocket.
Rural hospitals, which are absolutely crit-
ical during this pandemic, could close their
doors. As Dr. Val Wangler, the chief medical
officer of Rehoboth McKinley Christian
Health Care Services told me:
The Affordable Care Act is critical to the
health of patients in New Mexico’s rural
communities. Threatening the healthcare
coverage of our communities in the midst of
the greatest public health crisis of our times
is unconscionable.
For Indian Country and Native com-
munities, ACA repeal would be abso-
lutely devastating. I have heard first-
hand accounts from Tribal leaders, Na-
tive families, and healthcare providers
about how the ACA has improved the
healthcare landscape across Indian
Country—literally saving lives. The
ACA has opened the doors for so many
Native Americans to access the care
they need, whether it is an unplanned
medical emergency or routine wellness
checkups and screenings.
Access to quality healthcare is crit-
ical for Native communities, which
face disproportionate impacts from the
COVID–19 pandemic. The Federal Gov-
ernment has a trust and treaty obliga-
tion to consult with Tribes and to pro-
vide Native Americans healthcare.
With this rushed, hypocritical process,
Senate Republicans are violating our
most sacred duties to Indian Country.
We know that the Supreme Court
will rule on the fate of the Affordable
Care Act. That much is certain. But
what other cases might this Court rule
on in the near future, or in what other
cases might Judge Barrett cast the de-
ciding vote?
Well, as you have heard me mention
a few times now, we are in the middle
of a Presidential election—the most
important election of our lifetimes.
Facing an uncertain outcome at the
polls, President Donald Trump has re-
peatedly sought to undermine the le-
gitimacy of this election. He has lied
about the safety of mail-in voting, de-
spite the fact that he is a mail-in voter
himself. He deliberately tried to weak-
en the Postal Service, and President
Trump, along with Members of this
very body are telegraphing that they
want the Supreme Court, not voters, to
decide this election. They want to sow
enough doubt about the legitimacy of
the democratic process that it has to
go to the courts, and they want their
hand-picked conservative judge to tip
the scales for them.
You don’t get to choose the judge
who decides your own case. That is not
how we achieve true justice in a de-
mocracy. The core of our system is
having an impartial judge.
It has been shocking to watch as this
President, aided and abetted by Mem-
bers of this very Senate, has been so
overt about his desire to put a judge on
the Supreme Court who will rule in his
favor in any disputed election. That is
a tactic of authoritarians, not a democ-
racy.
But in her confirmation hearing,
Judge Barrett wouldn’t even comment
on whether a President should commit
to the peaceful transfer of power, as
this President has refused to do. She
called that a political controversy. The
peaceful transfer of power is not a po-
litical controversy. It is one of the
most sacred tenets of our democracy.
What else might Judge Barrett rule
on in the coming years? No doubt cases
concerning the most urgent, existen-
tial crisis we are facing as a Nation—
climate change. Cases to decide wheth-
er we will let big polluters do whatever
they want to our air, water, and planet.
There is no denying the science of
climate change. It is a real and present
danger to the lives and livelihoods of
people all across this Nation and the
world. My home State of New Mexico is
in the bull’s eye, with increasingly se-
vere wildfires and droughts.
This President is one of the few pub-
lic figures left in this country who says
he doesn’t believe the scientists. You
would hope a nominee to the Supreme
Court—the highest Court in our land—
wouldn’t follow his lead. But Judge
Barrett, again, wouldn’t even comment
on whether she believes climate change
is real. She again said that was a polit-
ical controversy.
The only place climate change is a
political controversy is within the
White House and within the Republican
Party, and the rest of us are paying the
price while they decide whether or not
to believe the overwhelming consensus
of the scientific community—whether
or not to believe their very eyes.
There are so many other issues on
which a Justice Barrett would likely
rule, including a woman’s right to
make her own healthcare decisions. A
leading advocate for women’s rights to
reproductive health, Justice Ruth
Bader Ginsburg would be replaced with
a public advocate against Roe v. Wade.
The nominee signed her name to state-
ments against Roe that ran in full-page
newspaper ads, undisclosed to the Sen-
ate. She signed joint public letters
against Roe. This was also undisclosed
to the Senate. She gave multiple
speeches to organizations dedicated to
overturning Roe, undisclosed to the
Senate. In a law review article, she
wrote that abortion was ‘‘always im-
moral.’’
And after promising for years only to
nominate judges who will overturn
Roe, Senate Republicans suddenly are
shy about it. They suddenly don’t have
the courage of their convictions, and
they won’t let the public in on their
true, long-stated agenda—overturning
Roe once and for all.
There is so much else at stake in this
fight—on voting rights, on worker
rights, and so much more, all with real
human consequences for the lives of
people all across this country.
Let’s not lose sight of the real people
who will be affected by this Republican
march to overload the Court with loy-
alists.
With so much at stake, the American
people deserve to have a say. It is that
simple.
So I urge my Republican colleagues
to take a step back and think about
what you are doing. Think about the
long-term damage you are doing to the
legitimacy of the courts and to the
faith of the American people that their
voices are being heard.
What is at stake is more than Justice
Ginsburg’s seat. It is the American
people’s seat.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I want
to thank my colleague from New Mex-
ico for his remarks just now.
I rise today to join him and my other
Democratic colleagues in opposing
Amy Coney Barrett’s nomination to
the Supreme Court.
I want to begin by acknowledging the
nature of the moment that we are in
right now. We are mere days from an
election day, during an election period
in which tens of millions of Americans
have already voted. We are grappling
with a global pandemic that has taken
the lives of more than 220,000 Ameri-
cans, and millions are out of work.
Yet, rather than focusing on pro-
viding the comprehensive relief that
lives and livelihoods are depending
upon, Republicans have instead made
pushing this nomination through their
top priority.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.364 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6547
October 25, 2020
The American people deserve better.
One of the most solemn responsibil-
ities of a U.S. Senator is providing ad-
vice and consent with regard to a Pres-
idential Supreme Court nomination.
This is a lifetime appointment to the
highest Court in our land, which will
impact the lives of every single person
in this country. The consequences of
this nomination are far-reaching, and
right now there is perhaps no more
consequential issue than healthcare.
The Trump administration and Re-
publicans in Congress have been relent-
less in their attempts to sabotage our
healthcare system, repeal the Afford-
able Care Act, and eliminate the
healthcare protections that millions of
people depend on.
But for years, Republicans have
failed legislatively to repeal this law.
So now, instead, they have turned to
the courts. President Trump said he
wants to ‘‘terminate’’ the Affordable
Care Act, and has said that he would
nominate judges who would do just
that.
One week after this election, just 9
days away, the Supreme Court will
hear the lawsuit supported by the
Trump administration to repeal the en-
tire Affordable Care Act and its protec-
tions for people with preexisting bene-
fits.
It is no secret that this is why Senate
Republicans have rushed Judge
Barrett’s nomination through.
For some of my colleagues, this nom-
ination is a means to an end, a way to
finally repeal the Affordable Care Act,
a law that has helped so many. For the
American people, however, this isn’t a
game.
Over the course of the last several
weeks, people in my home State of New
Hampshire and across the country have
spoken out about what the repeal of
this law would mean for them, just as
they have spoken out each time that
Republicans have tried to take cov-
erage away.
I recently heard from Michelle and
Joe O’Leary of Atkinson, NH. Michelle
and Joe’s son Matty was diagnosed
with a rare brain condition at the age
of 4. Right now, Matty is doing well,
but he requires a lifesaving brain infu-
sion treatment at the hospital, from 4
to 6 hours every 2 weeks.
His father said that the minute that
they miss an infusion, Matty’s health
would begin to decline rapidly.
Joe and Michelle said that on top of
all of the challenges that their family
experiences on a day-to-day basis, they
still have to wake up each morning
fearing the implications if the Supreme
Court overturns the healthcare law—
fearing what will happen if coverage is
taken away and they can’t access the
treatment that their beloved Matty
needs.
Joe and Michelle shared the details
of this deeply personal healthcare
story in order to preserve healthcare
for their son and millions of others.
They shouldn’t have to. No one in
America should have to plead with
their legislators to not take their
healthcare away. No one should. But
they do, in the wealthiest country on
Earth.
Joe and Michele are not alone. If
Judge Barrett is confirmed and be-
comes the Court’s deciding vote to
overturn the Affordable Care Act, an
estimated 20 million Americans could
lose their healthcare coverage.
Making matters worse, in pushing
this nomination through, my col-
leagues could undermine healthcare in
the midst of a devastating pandemic.
And just as we are learning that the
long-term effects of this virus will like-
ly mean that treatment for some will
be ongoing for a lifetime, the Senate
Republicans are moving to overturn
the Affordable Care Act—just when it
is needed most. It is unconscionable.
Potentially ripping away healthcare
from millions of Americans is just one
of the many things at stake. Women’s
reproductive freedom is at risk. Presi-
dent Trump has said that he will only
nominate judges who would overturn
Roe v. Wade, and Judge Barrett has re-
peatedly criticized this landmark rul-
ing that provides women with the free-
dom to make their own healthcare de-
cisions, control their own destinies,
and be full citizens of the United
States of America.
Equality for LGBTQ Americans is
also at risk. Just this month, two Jus-
tices on the Supreme Court indicated
their desire to overturn the decision
Obergefell v. Hodges, which delivered
marriage equality to so many. Judge
Barrett has previously defended the
dissenting opinion in that case.
And voting rights are at risk. Judge
Barrett refused to acknowledge the
fact that communities of color face dis-
proportionate obstacles in voting. Nor
would she acknowledge what every
lawyer and, really, most high school
students know—that voter intimida-
tion is illegal and antithetical to our
basic principles.
Judge Barrett would not even give a
straight answer when asked if Presi-
dents should commit to a peaceful
transition of power, an essential ele-
ment of our democracy and one that we
have held up as an example to the rest
of the world throughout our history.
And despite asserting that she is
independent and not swayed by poli-
tics, Judge Barrett’s refusal to ac-
knowledge that climate change is
real—after acknowledging other sci-
entific facts, such as the infectious na-
ture of COVID–19 and that cigarettes
can cause cancer—reveals her align-
ment with and responsibility to a far-
right, climate-change-denying agenda.
Our founding documents gave us the
flexibility and the tools to grow in our
understanding of what individual free-
dom means and who is entitled to it.
These tools have given us the power to
create change and move forward, to un-
leash the talent and energy of pre-
viously marginalized citizens.
Our country has prospered, thrived,
and led as a result. But Judge Barrett’s
views and her judicial philosophy are
not rooted in that belief. She, instead,
would constrain individual liberty and
empower corporations and put the
progress that so many have fought for
at risk.
Republicans have moved this nomi-
nation forward in contradiction of the
rules that they themselves invented in
2016. Our society and our democracy
rely on the idea that all sides of polit-
ical debate will play by the same rules.
That means, when any faction loses, it
does so knowing that it will have a fair
chance in the next round. When that
understanding is disrupted, it desta-
bilizes our democracy, and it sows con-
fusion and chaos. My Senate Repub-
lican colleagues’ actions make it clear
they believe that the rules do not apply
to them and that they do not care
about destabilizing our democracy in
this way.
We should not vote on a Supreme
Court nomination while an election is
actually underway. For the first time
in American history, we are voting on
a Supreme Court nominee just days be-
fore election day. My Republican col-
leagues have shown they will stop at
nothing to get this nominee through no
matter how many rules they break and
no matter how many Americans’ rights
are threatened. They are doing so all
while people across the country are
pleading with us to come together to
provide more support amid a public
health and economic crisis. My Senate
Republican colleagues’ priorities are
clear, and they are an outrage.
I cannot support a lifetime nomina-
tion of an individual who puts the
healthcare and basic civil rights of mil-
lions of Americans at risk. I will op-
pose Amy Coney Barrett’s nomination
to the Supreme Court, and I urge my
colleagues to do the same.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Indiana.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, 1 month
ago, Judge Amy Coney Barrett was se-
lected by President Trump to serve on
the U.S. Supreme Court, filling the va-
cancy created by the passing of Justice
Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Since then, Judge Barrett has more
than proven her qualifications for this
job. A respected Federal judge, educa-
tor, and public servant, Judge Barrett
has conducted herself throughout this
process with poise and integrity. She
has certainly demonstrated her intel-
lect, her legal acumen, and her com-
mitment to the Constitution of the
United States. She is, clearly, a bril-
liant jurist who interprets the Con-
stitution as written and carefully
weighs the facts of a given case.
Despite the Senate Democrats’ re-
peated attempts to drag her into the
political fray, Judge Barrett has prov-
en that she will make her decisions
based on the law rather than politics.
When I met with Judge Barrett ear-
lier this month, I was assured that she
would be guided by the law and prece-
dents and be faithful to the Constitu-
tion. As Judge Barrett herself has said
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.365 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6548 October 25, 2020
more than once, ‘‘A judge is obligated
to apply the law as it is and not as she
wishes it would be.’’ She is obliged to
follow the law even when her personal
preferences cut the other way or when
she will experience great public criti-
cism for doing so—the law, not politics.
As a fellow Hoosier, I have had the
privilege of getting to know Judge Bar-
rett and her family over the last sev-
eral years, since she was nominated to
fill a vacancy on the U.S. Court of Ap-
peals for the Seventh Circuit. When I
met the then-Notre Dame Law School
professor, it was abundantly clear that
she was a star. My colleague at the
time, former Democratic Indiana Sen-
ator Joe Donnelly, agreed with that as-
sessment. A brilliant legal scholar,
Judge Barrett was and is held in the
highest regard by her peers in the legal
world.
Judge Barrett’s qualifications
outshined personal attacks and reli-
gious bigotry, and she was confirmed
by a bipartisan majority to that circuit
court, and as a judge, she has more
than proven her legal credentials. She
has heard more than 600 cases and au-
thored nearly 100 opinions. I should
note she is the first woman from Indi-
ana ever to serve on that esteemed
court.
As I said, when I introduced Judge
Barrett before the Senate Judiciary
Committee earlier this month, I was
proud to cast my vote for Judge Bar-
rett in 2017, and I look forward to doing
so again for Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court. Three years ago, I did
not hear a single credible criticism—
not a single one—of Judge Barrett
based on her legal qualifications, and I
haven’t heard one at any time through-
out this confirmation process.
The Democrats have tried to make
this process about anything other than
Judge Barrett’s qualifications. Alarm-
ingly, they have made threats about
what the consequences will be if we
move forward.
First, they threatened to pack the
Supreme Court if we confirmed this
nominee, but we all know they were
talking about this long before—long
before—Justice Ginsburg’s passing. By
way of example, my colleague from
California Senator HARRIS said: ‘‘We
are on the verge of a crisis of con-
fidence in the Supreme Court . . . and
everything is on the table.’’ That is a
quote from March of this year.
Senator HARRIS isn’t alone. She just
happens to be the most prominent at
this point. In fact, according to the
Washington Post, 11 Democratic Presi-
dential candidates—5 of whom were sit-
ting U.S. Senators—said they were in
favor of or open to packing the Court.
Second, they have threatened to
eliminate the legislative filibuster if
we confirm this nominee. Now, folks,
they wanted to get rid of the 60-vote
threshold long before this vacancy on
the Supreme Court ever occurred.
Again, I will use Senator HARRIS by
way of example: ‘‘I am prepared to get
rid of the filibuster to pass a Green
New Deal.’’ That was in September of
2019.
There are 18 Democrats who ran for
President of the United States who
supported that move, including 6 sit-
ting U.S. Senators and 2 Governors who
are now running for the Senate.
Third, they have threatened to add
States to the Union if we confirm this
nominee. We know that has been on
the far-left’s wish list for years.
These idle threats aren’t going to
stop us from carrying out the will of
the American people, though, and con-
firming Judge Barrett. When we con-
firm Judge Barrett this week, she will
be the fifth woman and the first moth-
er of school-age children to serve as a
Supreme Court Justice. She will also
be the only current Justice to have re-
ceived a law degree from an esteemed
law school other than Harvard or Yale.
I will tell you, Hoosiers are ex-
tremely proud of Judge Amy Coney
Barrett and the trail she has blazed for
others. She is a role model for young
women everywhere, including, I might
say, my own three young daughters. I
am incredibly proud that our next Su-
preme Court Justice will be one who
hails from America’s heartland—from
the great State of Indiana.
I urge my colleagues to come to-
gether and carry out the will of the
American people by swiftly voting to
confirm Judge Amy Coney Barrett to
the Supreme Court of the United
States.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, I rise
today to express my support for the
confirmation of Judge Amy Coney Bar-
rett as an Associate Justice of the Su-
preme Court. She is exceptionally in-
telligent, academically astute, and im-
peccably credentialed. She has a record
of sound opinions and temperament as
a judge on the Seventh Circuit Court of
Appeals. Her life experiences provide
her with valuable perspective and evi-
dent wisdom. Perhaps most important,
she is a woman of unquestionable char-
acter and integrity, the presence of
which is essential to our Nation, as the
confidence of the Court itself is in the
balance. I will be honored to vote to
confirm her nomination.
Mr. President, I also rise to address
my concern regarding the division and
contempt for others that is growing
among many of our citizens. The
causes of this malady are many and
varied, but one to which I draw atten-
tion is the declining trust held by the
citizenry in our many institutions. A
democratic republic is highly depend-
ent upon the confidence of its people in
the institutions that lie at its founda-
tion. These includes churches, schools,
governments at all levels, the press,
corporations, markets, and most rel-
evant today, the justice system and the
courts. Absent public confidence in
these institutions, a democratic repub-
lic will not thrive or perhaps endure.
Fortunately, the Supreme Court en-
joys a great deal of respect from the
American people. Unfortunately, the
third branch may be one of the few in-
stitutions of our democratic republic
that is not experiencing a collapse in
public trust.
Our churches have been diminished
by scandal and by politicization.
Trust in local law enforcement has
fallen as we have witnessed some offi-
cers, who have sworn to protect our
communities, endanger the lives of
citizens. While this is particularly true
for citizens of color, the demonstra-
tions by millions of Americans are evi-
dence that the distrust is broadly
shared.
Trust in the FBI and the intelligence
community, long admired for their in-
tegrity and professionalism, has with-
ered with the attacks by politicians
from both parties, though admittedly
my party has been the more vocal.
What a message it sends when the
President accepts the word of the Rus-
sian President rather than the conclu-
sions of our intelligence agencies.
Even the CDC and the FDA have fall-
en in credibility, due both to inevitable
human error and to blistering political
attacks.
The free press is not only protected
by the Constitution; it is critical to the
preservation of democracy. Here, too,
charges of ‘‘fake news’’ and claims that
the press is the enemy of the people—
worsened by the media’s constant am-
plification of divisiveness—have so di-
minished the trust many Americans
have in the media that they instead be-
lieve bizarre, anonymous conspiracy
theories on the internet.
Now, more than at any other time
during my lifetime, it is essential the
Supreme Court retain the trust of the
Nation. It may be one of the very few,
if not the only, of the institutions in
which the great majority of Americans
have confidence. That is why Judge
Barrett’s integrity, wisdom, and com-
mitment to the rule of law is so impor-
tant: She will be critical to the preser-
vation of the public’s perception of the
legitimacy of the Court.
Judge Barrett wrote in a Texas Law
Review:
If the Court’s opinions change with its
membership, public confidence in the Court
as an institution might decline. Its members
might be seen as partisan rather than impar-
tial and case law as fueled by power rather
than reason.
Consideration of institutional legit-
imacy has long been a factor in the
Court’s deliberations. But I would
argue that this factor should be given
even greater weight today, as so many
of our other institutions are dimin-
ished and under attack. This would be
particularly true were the Court called
upon to decide a matter that would de-
termine the outcome of a Presidential
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.366 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6549
October 25, 2020
election. In my view, it is of para-
mount importance that such a decision
follow the law and the Constitution
where it leads, regardless of the out-
come, and thereby be beyond reproach,
clearly nonpolitical, and preferably
unanimous.
The Senate will soon send Judge Bar-
rett to the highest Court in the land. I
am confident that she is up to the
measure of the times in which we now
live. May God bless her and her family
as they begin this chapter of service to
our Nation.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, later
today we will confirm Amy Coney Bar-
rett to the Supreme Court. By now, I
don’t need to tell anybody that she is
one of the most highly qualified Su-
preme Court candidates in living mem-
ory. Her appearance before the Senate
Judiciary Committee was a master
class in what a Supreme Court Justice
should look like, which is probably
why a majority of voters want the Sen-
ate to confirm this outstanding nomi-
nee to the Nation’s highest Court.
A CNN anchor recently pointed out
that, ‘‘in another age . . . Judge Amy
Coney Barrett would be getting 70
votes or more in the United States
Senate . . . because of her qualifica-
tions.’’
That is unquestionably true, but, un-
fortunately, it is extremely unlikely
that Judge Barrett will be collecting 70
or more votes later today because, for
my Democratic colleagues, this has
never been about Judge Barrett’s quali-
fications. Democrats were never going
to support this nomination, no matter
how supremely qualified the individual
in question. The President could have
nominated the wisest, most out-
standing jurist in the history of the
world, and Democrats would still be op-
posing this nomination—in large part
simply because it was made by this
President.
Democrats had their talking points
ready from the beginning—the same
talking points that they trot out for
every Republican Supreme Court nomi-
nee. The sky will fall if this nominee
makes it on to the Court, they cry. Mi-
norities will suffer. Women will suffer.
Americans will lose their healthcare.
They have used that one a lot this
time.
Democrats would like to convince
Americans that Republicans are trying
to confirm Judge Barrett to the Su-
preme Court for the sole purpose of
eliminating the Affordable Care Act
and protections for preexisting condi-
tions. It is a ludicrous charge. Every
Republican—every Republican—in the
Senate supports protections for pre-
existing conditions, but apparently
that doesn’t matter to Democrats.
The truth is, Republicans have no
idea how Judge Barrett would rule on
any particular ObamaCare case. The
facts of each case are unique, with
unique legal and constitutional issues.
What we do know is that Judge Bar-
rett will approach each case without
prejudices or preconceived notions. We
know that she will examine the facts of
the case, the law, and the Constitution,
and make her decision based solely on
those criteria—not on her political be-
liefs, not on her personal opinions, just
the law and the Constitution, no mat-
ter which party drafted any legislation
in question. That should reassure
Democrats, but it doesn’t because, for
many Democrats, their primary con-
cern in confirming judges is not wheth-
er they will uphold the law but wheth-
er they will deliver the policy out-
comes that Democrats want.
That is why some Democrats are
threatening to resurrect the long-dis-
credited idea of court-packing, should
they return to the majority. They are
not sure that they can rely on a Su-
preme Court with Judge Barrett to de-
liver the policy outcomes that they
want. So they want to add Justices to
the Supreme Court until they can be
sure that they will get the results that
they desire. One has to wonder where
this will end.
Let’s say Democrats add three more
Justices to the Court. Then, when Re-
publicans take the majority back, we
add three more Justices to counteract
the Democrats’ power grab. Then
Democrats get back in power and add
still more Justices. It won’t be long be-
fore the members of the Supreme Court
are more numerous than the Members
of the U.S. Senate.
In addition to trying to scare Ameri-
cans by suggesting that Republicans
are trying to take away Americans’
healthcare, Democrats have also tried
to delegitimize the process. They have
tried to suggest that it is wrong for Re-
publicans to take up this nomination
in an election year because Repub-
licans didn’t confirm Merrick Garland
when President Obama nominated him
in an election year. I am not going to
spend a lot of time on this because the
Republican leader, myself, and others
have spent ample time demonstrating
that confirming Judge Barrett is well
within historical precedent.
But I will say this: The Constitution
of the United States gives the Senate
the power to advise and consent to
nominations made by the President.
The Senate has full authority to accept
or reject the President’s nominations
at any point in time during a Congress
or President’s term. There is no con-
stitutional carve-out for election
years. The minority party may not al-
ways like it when the majority con-
firms a nominee, which I completely
understand, having been in the minor-
ity myself. But that doesn’t mean that
the majority party is doing anything
wrong by proceeding with a nomina-
tion.
I also have to ask: Are Democrats se-
riously suggesting that if they were in
the same position—if they were in the
majority in the Senate and the Presi-
dent were a Democrat—they would de-
cline to approve a qualified jurist to
the Supreme Court simply because the
vacancy had occurred in an election
year? I think everyone knows that if
Democrats were in the same position,
they would absolutely confirm a Demo-
cratic nominee to the Court—as they
repeatedly urged us to do in 2016—and
they would be well within their con-
stitutional rights to do so, just as Re-
publicans are well within our constitu-
tional rights to confirm Judge Barrett.
Before I close I would like to touch
on another claim the Democratic lead-
er keeps making—that Judge Barrett’s
nomination is somehow distracting Re-
publicans from the COVID crisis or
that her nomination is preventing us
from taking up COVID legislation.
That is flatout false. The Senate is
capable of focusing on more than one
important issue at a time. In fact, it is
pretty much a requirement of our job
that we be able to do so. Has the Demo-
cratic leader forgotten that Repub-
licans tried to bring up additional
COVID relief legislation literally just
days ago and that Democrats, led by
the leader, filibustered and that they
did the same thing when we brought up
COVID relief legislation in September?
Republicans have been ready to pass
additional COVID legislation for
months. The only reason we haven’t
passed it already is that Democrats
have refused to agree to any com-
promise legislation that could actually
make it to through the Senate and to
the President’s desk.
I am hoping that sooner rather than
later, my friends on the other side will
see the value of working together to
provide real relief to our fellow Ameri-
cans. This disease doesn’t recognize
party differences, and I am hopeful
that my colleagues will realize that
passing COVID relief shouldn’t be a
time for insisting on partisan prior-
ities.
It is unfortunate that Judge
Barrett’s nomination has been over-
shadowed by so much partisanship
from Democrats, but ultimately what
matters is that we are confirming this
outstanding nominee.
As I said yesterday, I came to the
Senate with the hope of putting judges
like Amy Coney Barrett on the bench:
thoughtful, intelligent men and women
with a consummate command of the
law, and most of all—most of all—with
a clear understanding that the job of a
judge is to interpret the law, not to
make the law, to call balls and strikes,
not rewrite the rules of the game.
I am very proud to cast my vote to
confirm Judge Barrett, and I look for-
ward to calling her Justice Barrett in
the very near future.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.367 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6550 October 25, 2020
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
as august and impressive as this set-
ting is, what is happening today is not
normal. We have said it numerous
times, but we should say it again be-
cause we need to prevent it from be-
coming normal.
In fact, what is happening today is
sad, surreal, even shocking. We are 8
days away from an election. In an un-
precedented rush to confirm a Supreme
Court nominee, we are taking the place
of the next President and the next Sen-
ate in confirming the next Justice,
even as the American people are denied
a voice and a say in that decision.
What is happening here is not normal
because our Republican colleagues
have explicitly broken their word. We
have submitted to the Judiciary Com-
mittee quotes from 17 of them prom-
ising that there would be no confirma-
tion of a next Justice during an elec-
tion year.
It is not normal because, in fact, his-
torically, no Justice has been con-
firmed after July in an election year.
It is not normal because we are here,
in the midst of a pandemic, confirming
a Justice who would potentially deci-
mate our healthcare system now in the
middle of a healthcare crisis.
It is not normal because the adminis-
tration has said, as recently as Sunday,
through its Chief of Staff, there is no
control over this pandemic. This abject
surrender is shameful and disgraceful.
And it is not normal because the
American people have a right to expect
from us in this body that we would ad-
dress that pandemic and that we would
pass another pandemic relief bill. It
has passed the House. All we need to do
is vote.
In fact, on Saturday afternoon, I
came to the floor with a number of my
colleagues and offered, by unanimous
consent, measures that have passed the
House by a bipartisan majority, but
there was objection to moving forward.
My Republican colleagues, in object-
ing, said it is procedural harassment. I
beg to differ. It is democracy. It is de-
mocracy to address the needs of the
American people. That is what is nor-
mal in the Congress of the United
States, or at least it should be.
The fact is that our Republican col-
leagues are shattering the norms and
breaking the rules and breaking their
word, and there will be consequences.
There inevitably are consequences
when one person breaks her or his word
to another.
But there is a larger significance
here, which is that Amy Coney Barrett,
as a member of the U.S. Supreme
Court, will shift radically and dramati-
cally the balance politically on that
Court. It is an unelected body with life-
time terms, which is the antithesis of
the elected bodies that serve in the
U.S. Congress or the elected President,
and this radical shift will shatter the
legal fabric of that Court.
Now, I know that my Republican col-
leagues will refuse to acknowledge it,
but, in fact, it is part of an agenda—a
rightwing agenda—that has existed for
some time to move the Court to that
radical extreme fringe. In fact, they
have turned the U.S. Senate into a
kind of conveyor belt of judicial ap-
pointments not just to the Supreme
Court but to Federal courts at every
level.
Dark money is the vehicle for turn-
ing the U.S. Senate into that conveyor
belt. As we have documented as re-
cently as Friday, through a report that
we produced, showing how the NRA has
been at the tip of the spear of a move-
ment involving shell entities making
contributions, receiving money, and
channeling it to Members of this body
who have confirmed those nominees so
that that dark money produces ap-
pointees to the Federal bench.
Amy Coney Barrett is part of that
conveyor belt. She is only the latest of
the appointees who threatens to shift
not just the Supreme Court but the
Federal judiciary radically to the
right. The purpose is to achieve in the
courts what our Republican friends and
the radical right and the fringe ele-
ments of the Republican Party couldn’t
accomplish in the legislatures. They
couldn’t achieve in the State legisla-
tures or in the Congress what they now
seek to do by legislating from the
bench through activist judges who will
tilt our entire political system against
the majority will.
The agenda is essentially to con-
strain and constrict and even cripple
the healing and helping power of our
Federal Government under the guise
and the smoke screen of originalism.
They want to restrict and constrain
the vision of an expanding individual’s
right to essential liberties. They want
to constrict, instead of expand, an in-
creasingly inclusive America. And that
judicial philosophy is what underlies
disappointment of Amy Coney Barrett.
They want to legislate from the bench
and achieve in the courts what they
couldn’t achieve in our elective bodies
because they are losing in those elec-
tive bodies.
As Shannon Watts, a leader of
Everytown, said to me the other day:
They are going to the courts, not be-
cause we are weak in achieving meas-
ures against gun violence but because
we are growing stronger and stronger.
In fact, there is a grassroots move-
ment composed of Everytown, Moms
Demand Action, Students Demand Ac-
tion, Gifford, Brady, Connecticut
Against Gun Violence, Newtown Action
Alliance, and Sandy Hook Promise—all
part of a grassroots movement that is
moving America toward protecting
against gun violence.
But Amy Coney Barrett has a view of
the Second Amendment that she has
acknowledged in a speech ‘‘sounds kind
of radical.’’ That is a quote—‘‘sounds
kind of radical.’’ It sounds kind of rad-
ical because it is kind of radical, and
that radical view is losing in elective
bodies, in State legislatures, and in
local governments that are moving to
protect people against gun violence.
We see the same phenomenon on
healthcare, on reproductive freedom,
and on voting rights. The majority of
Americans want to expand the inclu-
siveness of America and the vision of
individual rights and liberty, not roll
them back, not turn back the clock to
this originalistic textualism that
underlies Amy Coney Barrett’s philos-
ophy. She will bring that philosophy to
the Bench, as she has done on the Sev-
enth Circuit as a member of the court
of appeals there. That is the danger,
and that is the alarm we are sounding
here.
The Affordable Care Act is about pro-
tecting people who have preexisting
conditions, but it is also about pro-
tecting children who are on their par-
ents’ healthcare policies until the age
of 26. It is about lowering the cost of
prescription drugs. It is about making
more widely available healthcare by
providing subsidies to folks who need
the help. It is about banning insurers
from charging women more just be-
cause they are women.
Preexisting conditions affect 130 mil-
lion Americans; in Connecticut, 1.5
million residents of our State—52 per-
cent of our population. Preexisting
conditions are diabetes, asthma, heart
disease, high blood pressure, and now
COVID–19. Yes, COVID–19 is a pre-
existing condition because of the dam-
age that may be done to lungs, hearts,
livers, and other organs.
In the midst of a pandemic of COVID–
19, this administration is putting on
the highest Court in the land a Justice
who would strike down that protection.
Of course, they have a ruse. It is called
severability. Our Republican col-
leagues say: Don’t worry; the Court can
strike down one provision and keep the
whole law—or the rest of it in place.
Severability—you sever the part that
is unconstitutional. It is a doctrine of
law. But that is not what the U.S. Dis-
trict Court held in striking down the
Affordable Care Act in the case that is
now before the U.S. Supreme Court—
the same case that will be argued on
November 10, where Judge Barrett will
sit, assuming she is confirmed today.
The U.S. District Court didn’t hold
that it was severable. On the contrary,
it struck down the whole law. The
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
didn’t hold that it was severable.
The administration is not looking for
severability. It says: Strike down the
law. The President of the United States
says: It couldn’t come soon enough.
Eliminate the Affordable Care Act in
total, including the protection for peo-
ple with preexisting conditions. They
promise to replace it.
The President’s Press Secretary
handed to Leslie Stahl, after his ‘‘60
Minutes’’ interview, the supposed plan,
a replacement, which was absurdly a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.368 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6551
October 25, 2020
collection, apparently, of past Execu-
tive orders, other documents—com-
pletely irrelevant and inadequate as a
supposed replacement. So this idea of
severability is another ruse.
Our Republican colleagues also say
our fears are ‘‘apocalyptic.’’ The ma-
jority leader used that word yester-
day—‘‘apocalyptic.’’ It is not apoca-
lyptic if you have a preexisting condi-
tion. It is not apocalyptic if you care
about the people who have preexisting
conditions. It is not apocalyptic if you
have lived through the excruciating
pain and anguish and anxiety, as the
Curran family has, of having a child
with a preexisting condition.
Let me introduce you to Connor
Curran, a 10-year-old—in fact, he just
celebrated his 10th birthday in
Ridgefield; I was with him that day—
who has Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
I have told his story on the floor in this
place numerous times over the course
of these past years since I first met
him about 5 years ago. Connor is a
hero. There are few in this body who
could claim to have had his courage
and perseverance at that age—maybe
at any age. His smile lights the world.
His courage is matched by his parents.
I introduced Connor to Amy Coney
Barrett at the hearing because I want-
ed her to know the impact on real peo-
ple and real lives, the real harm that
would be done if the Affordable Care
Act is struck down.
Connor has survived this debilitating
disease because of treatment his par-
ents couldn’t have afforded without the
Affordable Care Act. It is that simple.
They wrote to me asking me to make a
plea to Amy Coney Barrett: Please
don’t take away Connor’s healthcare.
They asked me to ask her to make a
pledge—doctors make this pledge—
first, do no harm. First, do no harm.
I don’t know whether Amy Coney
Barrett heard or saw Connor. Of course,
his poster was there when I told his
story. I don’t know whether the impact
of that story will move her, but my
hope is that it will, and my hope is—or
was—that it would move my col-
leagues, because the real harm to real
people is not only about Connor
Curran, this brave boy who will lose his
ability to walk and his ability to hug
and then to hold hands, to play with
his brothers. And in spite of all of it, he
has demonstrated that perseverance
and courage that I hope will move this
body, even in this closing hour, to re-
spect the importance of the Affordable
Care Act. Others, like Julia Lanzano,
who has treatment for a brain tumor
because of the Affordable Care Act, and
countless others who have that kind of
treatment, are enabled by the Afford-
able Care Act to do so.
It may seem to my Republican col-
leagues apocalyptic but not to Connor
Curran and his family.
Tens of times, Republicans in this
Senate have sought to repeal the Af-
fordable Care Act. They failed. Now
they are trying to do it from the
courts—legislate from the bench
through an activist judge like Amy
Coney Barrett.
They are rushing this nomination
not only to strip away healthcare from
people like Connor, but they also want
to end a woman’s right to decide and
choose when and whether and how to
have a family.
I want to emphasize something to my
Republican colleagues that I hope they
hear. When you take away a woman’s
right to make that decision, when you
turn women who seek an abortion into
criminals, when you make doctors per-
forming abortions guilty of crimes, you
don’t end abortion. You make getting
an abortion more costly. You make
getting an abortion more excruciat-
ingly difficult. Most importantly, you
make it more dangerous—literally dan-
gerous. Hundreds of women died every
year seeking unsafe abortions before
Roe v. Wade protected their right to
choose.
I remember that era because I was a
law clerk to Justice Harry Blackmun
on the U.S. Supreme Court shortly
after he wrote the majority opinion in
Roe v. Wade, and we thought the issue
was resolved: Women have the right to
make that choice, legally.
But far from resolution, what we see
is a continued assault on that right.
Now Republicans have stacked the
bench with activist judges ready to
chip away at reproductive rights and
even reverse Roe, chipping away at it
through State legislatures—restric-
tions on clinics, the width of their hall-
ways, the requirement for admitting
privileges.
We can be sure that victims of rape
or incest will be forced to carry an
abuser’s child if those restrictions are
upheld or Roe is reversed. If you doubt
it, let me introduce you to Samantha.
One night in January 2017, Samantha
went out with a few friends and co-
workers. She woke up the next morn-
ing in a coworker’s home, confused,
scared, and covered in her own blood.
She had been raped.
After she was raped, Samantha was,
in her own words, a zombie. She just
wanted the event to be erased from her
memory. That March, Samantha took
a pregnancy test, and then another,
and then another. They kept coming
back with the same result—pregnant.
After the horrible violence she faced,
she simply couldn’t process that she
was now pregnant. She chose to have
an abortion.
When Samantha shared her story
with me, she wrote: ‘‘I knew that, if I
couldn’t end this pregnancy, it would
end me.’’
Reversing Roe v. Wade will matter
for Tracy, also from Connecticut, a
woman I met, also courageous and hon-
est. Tracy was diagnosed with stage IV
endometriosis, which caused an ongo-
ing inability to have a healthy preg-
nancy.
But she was, as she describes it, ‘‘one
of the lucky ones.’’ She had access to
care and was able to receive in vitro
fertilization treatment to assist in get-
ting and staying pregnant. But Tracy
was scared when she saw that a group
that sponsored an open letter, signed
by Judge Barrett, had recently stated
that they wanted to criminalize having
a child through IVF.
In a world without Roe, there will be
nothing to protect against a law mak-
ing it a crime for a woman to do what
Tracy did and for a doctor to perform
that medical procedure which enables
her to achieve her lifetime dream of
having a child.
Sadly, we don’t have to wonder what
Judge Barrett’s position on a woman’s
right to choose will be. She signed a
letter calling Roe v. Wade ‘‘infamous’’
and called for ‘‘the unborn to be pro-
tected in law.’’ That is her legal view,
her position on the law.
I didn’t ask her in the hearing about
her personal views or her religious
faith—those issues are private—but her
position on the law, just as she left no
doubt about her view of the Affordable
Care Act when she wrote that Chief
Justice Roberts stretched that measure
beyond its true meaning in order to up-
hold it—I am paraphrasing—or said
about King v. Burwell, upholding the
Affordable Care Act, that the dissent
had the better of the legal argument.
In another letter signed by Judge
Barrett, she called Roe v. Wade’s leg-
acy ‘‘barbaric.’’ We know what Judge
Barrett will do about the Affordable
Care Act and about reproductive free-
doms because she has been screened
and vetted. There is no mystery. Don-
ald Trump has said he would impose a
strong test—his words—and that strong
test was to strike down the Affordable
Care Act and overturn Roe v. Wade.
We cannot go back. We cannot roll
back these rights. We cannot turn back
the clock to an America that banned
abortion in many States, drove it un-
derground, and made vital healthcare
services dangerous and even deadly. We
can’t go back to an America where the
rich and privileged can find a way out
of unintended pregnancy but the rest of
America is denied that access to
healthcare.
There is a racial justice element here
because the ones who will suffer, pre-
dominantly and disproportionately, are
women of color, women of lesser means
financially, who live in those States
and cannot travel to others like Con-
necticut, where Roe v. Wade was codi-
fied in statute when I was in the State
legislature as a State senator. I helped
to lead that effort to codify it in stat-
ute. But Connecticut’s law won’t help
the woman in Texas or Louisiana who
is denied that right.
Make no mistake, this threat is not
some abstract, hypothetical notion in
the future, some apocalyptic vision of
what might happen in the United
States of America. We are one step
away. In fact, there are 17 abortion-re-
lated cases that are literally one step
away from the U.S. Supreme Court.
There are cases like SisterSong Women
of Color Reproductive Justice Collec-
tive v. Kemp, a case currently before
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.370 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6552 October 25, 2020
the 11th Circuit involving a challenge
to a ban on abortion as early as 6
weeks into pregnancy, before many
women even know they are pregnant.
There are cases like Memphis Center
for Reproductive Health v. Slatery, a
case challenging an escalating ban on
abortions at 6, 8, 10, 12, and so on weeks
into pregnancy, depending on where
the Sixth Circuit deems it appropriate
for a woman to lose the right to choose
for herself when and whether to have a
child.
There are additional cases involving
bans on abortion later in pregnancy,
when women can face the most severe
health risks and rely on their doctors
for accurate information and compas-
sionate care.
There are ‘‘reason-based bans’’ that
merely exist as a pretext for interro-
gating and intimidating women who
seek an abortion.
There are cases like Planned Parent-
hood Gulf Coast v. Rebekah Gee, which
challenged years of inaction by the
State of Louisiana on a Planned Par-
enthood affiliate’s application for a li-
cense to provide needed abortion care.
There are other challenges to redtape
laws that require abortion providers to
jump over obstacles—needless, sense-
less hurdles that serve no medical pur-
pose but exist just to burden them and
make necessary abortion services hard-
er to obtain—and numerous other abor-
tion laws designed to limit access,
strictly to limit access in the supposed
name of healthcare.
Access to reproductive healthcare is
already hanging by a thread in many
States across the country. Judge
Barrett’s nomination imperils the ac-
cess that remains, and these cases are
just one step away from the highest
Court—at least 17 of them, one step
away from the Court that Amy Coney
Barrett will join.
Reproductive rights are not the only
rights at stake in this nomination.
Voting rights hang in the balance as
well. For years, Republicans have de-
cided that they are willing to suppress
the vote if it helps them to win elec-
tion. This fundamental assault on our
democracy has taken many forms, and
we have seen them across the country
as recently as this election, ongoing, in
realtime.
Republican-appointed judges have
worked with Republican elected offi-
cials to allow suppression action to
take effect and be sustained. These
judges proclaim themselves to be
originalists, but they betray provisions
of the Constitution, the 14th and 15th
Amendments, that our ancestors
fought a civil war to secure: equality
and the right to vote.
A civil rights movement, a century
later, secured the passage of the Voting
Rights Act and made those rights real
for many Americans. People marched,
some died to pass that law. But this
conservative Supreme Court betrayed
the legacy of Lincoln, Martin Luther
King, and JOHN LEWIS when it gutted
the Voting Rights Act in the Shelby
County case, and this Court continues
to attack voting rights and it will con-
tinue under Amy Coney Barrett.
Howard Porter, Jr., a Black man in
his seventies with asthma and Parkin-
son’s disease, was a plaintiff in one of
those cases decided just this month.
Howard simply wanted to be able to
cast his vote safely, without con-
tracting COVID–19.
He wrote to the court:
So many of my ancestors even died to vote.
And while I don’t mind dying to vote, I think
we’re past that—we’re past that time.
On a partisan vote, the conservatives
on the Supreme Court disagreed.
Amy Coney Barrett will join them,
and rushing this nomination on the eve
of the election means that she will join
them possibly to vote on the election
itself while on the Court.
Is that view apocalyptic? Not if you
believe Donald Trump, who said the
reason why he wants a ninth Justice is
to decide the election, not the voters—
the Supreme Court. He said the quiet
part out loud—and so did a number of
my colleagues in our Judiciary Com-
mittee meeting. He said: This election
will end up in the Supreme Court, and
‘‘I think it’s very important we have
nine Justices.’’
And when I asked Amy Coney Barrett
if she would recuse herself from a case
about this election as a result of these
comments, she refused to answer or
commit.
I call on her to postpone her taking
the oath of office until after the next
President of the United States is inau-
gurated. Why not remove any doubt
about conflict of interest, any question
about the legitimacy of whatever deci-
sion may be necessary by the Supreme
Court by postponing her investiture. I
ask her to make that commitment and
for my colleagues to join in that call
and for the President to respect it.
This nomination is not just about
healthcare; it is also about the assault
on a woman’s right to choose, on vot-
ing rights, and it is about whether gov-
ernments can enact reasonable, sen-
sible gun violence protection laws to
keep America safe.
I want to tell you, finally, about Nat-
alie Barden. Natalie is 18 years old. She
was 10 when her little brother Daniel
was killed at Sandy Hook Elementary
School in Newtown, CT, on December
14, 2012. Daniel was 7 at the time. He
was one of 20 innocent, beautiful chil-
dren and a sixth grade educator who
were killed that tragic morning.
I was at the firehouse not long after.
I witnessed the unspeakable grief on
the faces of parents and families whose
children were gunned down, families
who realized that some of those chil-
dren were not coming home.
Eight years later, Natalie says that
her grief is still real. Her crusade for
gun violence prevention measures in-
spires me. So does the work of her par-
ents and other families there in New-
town and across the country—survivors
I have met, families I have come to
know and respect and admire.
What happened at Sandy Hook,
sadly, was not an isolated abhorrent
incident; it is part of an epidemic, a
scourge, a public health menace of gun
violence. In the last 10 years, gun vio-
lence has taken more than 350,000 lives
in rural communities and urban com-
munities and every community in be-
tween. No community is immune. None
of my colleagues’ communities can
claim they are immune.
Judge Barrett’s view of the Second
Amendment—that it would give felons,
for example, the right to buy or possess
firearms; that it would put the burden
on the government to prove they are
dangerous; a view that she acknowl-
edges sounds kind of radical—would po-
tentially result in striking down the
laws that Natalie has crusaded to
achieve; that Janet Rice of downtown
Hartford, who lost her son Shane, be-
lieves can help save lives because, in
fact, those gun violence prevention
measures can save lives.
Universal background checks; closing
the Charleston loophole; Ethan’s Law,
named after Ethan’s Song, who per-
ished because of an unsafely stored
weapon—these measures can help save
lives. A ban on ghost guns, untraceable
because they have no serial numbers; a
ban on high-capacity magazines—these
laws can help save lives. But with Amy
Coney Barrett’s nomination, every sin-
gle gun violence prevention measure at
every level of government is in grave
peril because she will join others on
that Court who believe with her in this
radical agenda of striking down those
measures.
Tabitha Escalante of March for Our
Lives said to me the other day: ‘‘Noth-
ing less than everything is at stake.’’
And that is because, again, there are
cases literally one step away from the
highest Court, including Duncan v.
Becerra, where Judge Kenneth Lee on
the Ninth Circuit became the first
Trump-nominated judge to rule that a
ban on high-capacity magazines vio-
lated the Second Amendment. That
outlier opinion flouted the unanimous
consensus of other Federal appeals
judges who have upheld large-capacity
magazine bans in their State. There
are numerous other cases that involve
measures that help save lives—one step
away from being struck down.
My Republican colleagues have the
majority. They may have the votes to
push this nomination through today,
but they don’t have the American peo-
ple, and they don’t have history on
their side. They are doing it because
they can, because they have the votes,
but Americans can do something too.
They can vote. They can show they
want gun violence protection measures
and reproductive freedoms and the Af-
fordable Care Act and voting rights and
workplace safety. They don’t want an
America that rolls back to an
originalistic view, a smokescreen that
constricts rights and liberties.
There is something larger than just
one Justice and one vote at stake here.
Nothing less than everything is at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.371 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6553
October 25, 2020
stake—a shift in the balance of the
Court that will last for decades if we do
not act to correct, and believe me,
there are appropriate measures that
should be considered. The American
people have the power in this election
to speak out and stand up to protect
their own health, the public health,
and the health of our democracy.
I fear for the Supreme Court’s legit-
imacy. I revere the Supreme Court,
having argued before it, having clerked
on it. Its legitimacy depends on faith
and trust. We must act to restore the
credibility and legitimacy of the Court,
which has been so gravely imperiled.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TILLIS.) The Senator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, Jus-
tice Ginsburg was the first Supreme
Court Justice I ever voted for and a
North Star for me and so many others
whose futures were irrefutably made
possible in part by her life and her
work.
I pledged I would do everything in
my power to honor her last wish—that
the next President fill her vacancy—
not just because Justice Ginsburg was
a legal giant who can never be replaced
but because I understand, like she did,
that making such a momentous deci-
sion so close to an election could exac-
erbate our Republic’s challenges and
spin our democracy into chaos.
That is why I have been fighting so
hard to push my colleagues to stop this
charade and to just wait a few weeks.
We should not be voting on this life-
time appointment while the American
people themselves are in the middle of
voting, of telling us how they want this
country’s future to look.
This is all made even worse by the
fact that we are in the middle of a pan-
demic, and instead of working with
Democrats to pass serious relief our
communities are calling out for, Re-
publicans are refusing to do anything
but jam this anti-healthcare judge on
to the Supreme Court.
Over the last 3 years, I have seen Re-
publicans rubberstamp hard-right judi-
cial nominees like it is all they came
here to do, but watching them ignore
the clear wishes of the American peo-
ple, explicitly reject attempts to help
families and communities get through
this pandemic, and press on with this
grotesque power grab—it is a new low
for this body. It is a new low for our
country and for the people we serve.
As I have made clear, I will be voting
against Judge Barrett’s confirmation,
just like I voted against her confirma-
tion to the Seventh Circuit Court of
Appeals, against Justice Kavanaugh
and Gorsuch and against so many other
Trump-nominated judges who, whether
they admit it or not, are part of a Re-
publican strategy to roll back our
hard-won progress.
Judge Barrett clearly fits the same
mold as the more than 200 partisan
judges Senate Republicans have fast-
tracked onto the Federal bench who
are anti-healthcare and anti-abortion
but pro-big business and pro-wealthy
special interests.
This was all reinforced during the
sham nomination process as Senate Re-
publicans and Judge Barrett tried to
downplay their own litmus test.
Judge Barrett was asked to affirm
the constitutionality of the law that
protects healthcare for hundreds of
millions of Americans. She refused.
She was asked to affirm the long-
standing ruling of Roe v. Wade as a
superprecedent. Not surprisingly, given
her record includes a statement calling
Roe ‘‘barbaric,’’ she refused.
She was asked to affirm the constitu-
tionality of the ruling that allowed
same-sex marriages and opened up a
new chapter of equality for LGBTQIA+
couples. She refused.
She was asked to affirm that climate
change is causing air and water pollu-
tion. Yet, even on this matter of sci-
entific fact, Judge Barrett refused to
answer, and that was apparently ex-
actly what Senate Republicans hoped
she would do.
The lack of transparency from Judge
Barrett and Senate Republicans is con-
cerning, not because we don’t know
where they stand—we do—but because
they are so comfortable obfuscating
cold facts about Judge Barrett’s record
and judicial philosophy as well as their
own previous statements, as if they are
not real.
For example, in 2016, they were ada-
mant that when the Supreme Court
loses a Justice in an election year, the
people’s voices should be heard before
the vacancy is filled. For 8 months,
they refused to hold a hearing on Presi-
dent Obama’s nominee, Merrick Gar-
land, but now, even as the American
people are in the process of voting, Re-
publicans are trying to ignore their
voices. Not on my watch.
I recently asked people in Wash-
ington State to share their personal
stories about what is at stake for their
families. The response has been over-
whelming, and the stories have been
alarming.
I have heard from people whose sto-
ries show how different life was before
and after Roe v. Wade and how much
would be lost if reproductive rights
were rolled back.
I have heard from people who fear
their right to marry or adopt a child or
start a family could be lost.
I have heard from people who are
worried they will die if Republicans get
their way at the Supreme Court and
take away the healthcare and protec-
tions they rely on.
Republicans may want to pretend the
stakes are not this high, but they don’t
have to take my word for it; they can
listen to their own constituents and
look at their own records.
For Republican Senators to stand
here and tell families ‘‘not to worry’’ is
kind of like the captain of the Titanic
passing out umbrellas and telling pas-
sengers that is all they need—with one
key difference. Republicans have made
clear from the start that hitting the
iceberg is not an accident; it is the
plan.
Despite the fact that climate change
is an existential threat—something the
vast majority of the public under-
stands—Republicans continue to cower
to a President and special interests
who insist it is a hoax.
Despite the hard-fought progress for
LGBTQIA+ rights, they have stood by
this President who undermines them at
every turn.
Despite the fundamental importance
of the right to vote, they have blocked
our efforts to restore and secure those
rights and protect our democracy.
Despite what they would have you
believe, Republicans have tried time
and again to end protections for people
with preexisting conditions and upend
healthcare in our country.
If the failed TrumpCare vote from a
very few years ago is too painful or dis-
tant a memory for Republicans to re-
visit, they are at this very moment
championing a lawsuit that would do
all the harm of that bill and then some.
Who is going to hear that lawsuit? The
deciding vote could be a Justice picked
by a President who vowed—vowed—he
would only choose nominees who will
rule against protections for preexisting
conditions, who thinks that would be a
‘‘big win,’’ and who said just last week
that he hopes that happens.
It is no mystery why President
Trump nominated and Republicans are
rushing to confirm a judge with a
record of hostility to the Affordable
Care Act.
It is no secret that a victory for them
would be a disaster for families across
our country. If you don’t believe me,
ask Mays from SeaTac, WA, who lives
with sleep apnea, asthma, prediabetes,
complex post-traumatic disorder, and
hypothyroidism. If Republicans suc-
ceed in this lawsuit, she would lose her
Medicaid expansion coverage and ac-
cess to care, meaning her conditions
could deteriorate, increasing her risk
of diabetes, coma, or dying in her sleep.
If you don’t believe Mays, then ask
Rhiannon from Arlington, WA, who has
type 1 diabetes and could get kicked off
her parents’ insurance plan if Repub-
licans win this case at the Supreme
Court. As she wrote to me, ‘‘Right now
the ACA is the only hope I have of liv-
ing past 26.’’
If you don’t believe Rhiannon, ask
Madeline, who has a medical condition
which makes pregnancy fatal. For
Madeline, affordable healthcare cov-
erage—coverage that includes access to
birth control—is absolutely essential,
as is the right to an abortion. If Repub-
licans get their way, insurance compa-
nies would no longer have to cover
birth control, even though a pregnancy
for Madeline would be life-threatening.
Things get even worse for her if Re-
publicans overturn Roe v. Wade. Last
year, when Madeline learned that, de-
spite being diligent about her birth
control, she was pregnant, she knew
what she had to do. She had to get an
abortion. It was safe; it was legal; it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.373 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6554 October 25, 2020
was totally her decision; and it was
lifesaving.
But if Judge Barrett were Justice
Barrett, if the right to abortion were a
thing of the past, Madeline’s pregnancy
would have been a death sentence. As
she put it, ‘‘This isn’t a right vs. left
issue for a lot of us, it’s life or death—
and knowing [that] is at stake . . . is
terrifying.’’
Madeline isn’t the only person who is
terrified. If Republicans win their law-
suit, over 130 million people with pre-
existing conditions like Madeline could
be charged more for their health insur-
ance, have benefits excluded, or be de-
nied coverage entirely.
Over 20 million people like Mays and
Rhiannon could lose coverage for Med-
icaid expansion, the exchanges, or their
parents’ plans. Insurance companies
could exclude essential health benefits
countless other patients rely on, like
prescription drugs or maternity care or
therapy or wheelchairs or much more.
Half the country could be charged
more for health insurance just because
they are a woman. Seniors could face
thousands more in healthcare costs
with the return of the age tax and the
Medicare doughnut hole. Lives of peo-
ple with disabilities could be upended if
they lose access to home- and commu-
nity-based services that help them live
independent lives or if insurance pro-
viders can discriminate on the basis of
disability by denying coverage or
charging more.
And people with expensive healthcare
needs—cancer diagnosis, a medically
complicated pregnancy, a fight with
COVID–19—could be left with an enor-
mous bill since insurance companies
won’t have to cap patients’ out-of-
pocket costs but will be able to place
annual and lifetime limits on their
benefits.
And we cannot forget the commu-
nities of color who already face worse
outcomes due to systemic racism in
our healthcare system who would be
hit hardest by so much of the damage
of the Republicans’ healthcare lawsuit.
Healthcare isn’t all that is at stake
for families—far from it. Fundamental
rights and protections and opportuni-
ties for workers are on the line. The
fate of immigrants and refugees and
asylum seekers—families and Dream-
ers who came to our Nation in search
of a better life and brighter future are
on the line. And hard-fought victories
for the LGBTQIA+ community are on
the line.
Matthew, in my home State of Wash-
ington, and his husband were able to
marry, to adopt, and fortunate to be
able to form a loving family. But that
might not be possible for LGBTQIA+
couples like them in the future if the
highest Court in the land turns back
the clock and refuses to see them as
equal under the law.
The bottom line is that this Supreme
Court fight is not about politics. It is
about the lives of hundreds of millions
of people. If Republicans don’t believe
my constituents, I invite them to ask
their own. I encourage them to listen
because I guarantee people across the
country know what Republicans have
been saying, know exactly what Repub-
licans are voting for, and they are
speaking up about it.
I am here sharing their stories on the
Senate floor, and Democrats brought
their stories to the committee room so
that Republicans have no choice but to
hear them.
When we vote, Republicans will have
no excuse to pretend they do not know
exactly what is at stake. Instead, every
one of them will have a simple choice.
Will you listen to the families who are
speaking up, the people who are saying
to you, in no uncertain terms, that if
you put this judge on the Court, if you
win this partisan lawsuit, it could kill
me or will you ignore them?
If Republicans truly want to reassure
their constituents and want to show
they are listening, the choice is simple:
Vote no on this nomination. For those
who choose to put this President and
the profoundly lost Republican Party
above anything else, to those Repub-
licans who are capping these brutal
last 4 years off with such a staggering
show of fealty and partisanship and
callousness, know the consequences of
this vote will be felt long after this
President is gone from office, regard-
less of the outcome of this election.
People of this country will not forget
and neither will your Democratic col-
leagues.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Pursuant to rule IV, paragraph 2, the
hour of 12 noon having arrived, and the
Senate having been in continuous ses-
sion since yesterday, the Senate will
suspend for a prayer from the Senate
Chaplain.
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Holy God, as our lawmakers strive on
this decisive day in history to accom-
plish Your purposes, show them how to
discern Your will. May they renew
their minds through the nourishment
of Your Holy Word. Lord, prepare them
to be sober-minded and filled with Your
Spirit, accomplishing the tasks that
receive Your approval. Keep them from
conforming to worldly impulses as they
strive to ensure that their behavior
will rightly represent You. May they
conduct themselves with holiness, god-
liness, and civility, waiting for the day
when You will return to establish Your
Kingdom on Earth. Lord, prepare us all
to stand before You in peace without
spot or blemish.
We pray in Your powerful Name.
Amen.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
NOMINATION OF AMY CONEY BARRETT
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, it is an
honor and a privilege to speak on be-
half of the confirmation of Judge Amy
Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court of
the United States today.
One of Judge Barrett’s familiar
themes, one that she has invoked in
speeches when speaking about the Con-
stitution and about the role of the Fed-
eral judiciary, involves a line from
Odysseus. It involves a reference to the
‘‘Odyssey.’’
She says:
The Constitution is like when Odysseus
ties himself to the mast to resist the song of
the Sirens. And he tells his crew, ‘Don’t
untie me no matter how much I plead.’
That’s what we’ve done as the American peo-
ple with the Constitution. We’ve said . . .
it’s the people sober appealing to the people
drunk, [that when you are tempted to get
untied], that when you are tempted to get
carried away by your passions and trample
upon the First Amendment rights or minor-
ity rights, this document will hold you back.
Judge Barrett points out a very crit-
ical matter here, an absolutely essen-
tial matter, which is, first of all, that
the whole point of having a Constitu-
tion involves restraining and restrict-
ing government. As it relates to the ju-
diciary, it involves acknowledging the
necessarily limited, finite, and con-
fined role of the judiciary.
Sometimes when people refer to the
three branches of the Federal Govern-
ment, they will get it backward. Some-
times people will refer to the judicial
branch as if it were the most powerful.
This gets it exactly backward. It was
designed to be—and, in fact, is—the
least dangerous branch of the three
branches. That is not to say it is not
the most dangerous of all. Government,
generally, is something that while nec-
essary is also dangerous just like water
or fire or wind or oxygen or any of the
things that we depend upon for our
day-to-day existence.
Government, including the power of
the judiciary itself, has to be managed
carefully, and it has to be channeled. If
it is not, we become dangerous. So that
is why we have a Constitution. It is to
restrain government because govern-
ment is force. Government is nothing
more or nothing less than the collec-
tive, coercive use of force. We use it to
protect life, liberty, and property. We
use it to make sure that people don’t
harm each other and to make sure that
we are protected from our adversaries
within and without our borders, our
boundaries. Yet, if we lose sight of
what government does and what it
doesn’t do, what it can and cannot do,
what it may or may not do, or what
any branch of the government may do,
we find ourselves in troubled, troubled
waters.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.375 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6555
October 25, 2020
The reason I say that the judicial
branch is the least dangerous of the
three is that it doesn’t possess the
power to say what should be, only what
is. The power of the legislative branch,
where we serve, is the most dangerous
of the three because we have the power
to prohibit conduct. We have the power
to prescribe policy. We make the law.
The second most dangerous power is
probably that which is held in the exec-
utive branch. It has been made more
dangerous over the last 80 years as
Democrats and Republicans alike have
ceded more power to the executive
branch, voluntarily relinquishing the
role, which is uniquely, distinctively,
and by constitutional mandate ours,
over mostly to unelected, unaccount-
able bureaucrats who are, in some
cases, the President of the United
States or those who serve under his
employ.
The judicial branch possesses neither
the power of the purse nor the power of
the sword. We have the power of the
purse. We spend the money. We pre-
scribe the policy. The executive branch
has the power to implement and force
and execute the laws, hence the power
of the sword. The judicial branch pos-
sesses only the power to decide what
the law says. In that respect, it is oper-
ating as if through a rearview mirror.
It is not saying what will come or what
should be but what already is, what the
law means as it already exists.
In order to do that, the judicial
branch has to come to a conclusion
that our laws consist of words; that
those words have meaning; and that, in
order to tie themselves to the constitu-
tional mast in order to make sure that
they themselves are able to resist the
siren call of power and to keep each of
the three branches of government in
check insofar as it is their prerogative
to do so, they have to check back con-
tinually and check themselves con-
stantly with the words of the U.S. Con-
stitution and the words of the law
itself.
Yes, it matters. Yes, these things are
easily ignored. These powers are easily
abused. In fact, they often have been
abused. There are a number of reasons
for this. They have to do mostly with
human nature itself. Human beings,
while redeemable, are flawed. They
crave power. They tend to act toward
those things that make them more
powerful if they are already in posi-
tions of government authority. That is
why it is easy to understand why, from
time to time, the courts stray.
Now, I want to be very clear at the
outset. The Federal court system, not-
withstanding its flaws, is the best of its
kind in the world. There is no judicial
system anywhere in the world that I
am aware of that is as respected or as
consistently dedicated to the rule of
law, to interpreting the law consist-
ently and faithfully as is our Federal
court system.
The Supreme Court of the United
States, while it has made some very
bad decisions along the way, for the
most part, gets things right. In fact, it
is something that may come as a sur-
prise to many Americans that of all of
the decisions that the Supreme Court
decides in a typical year, in modern
times, it is most common that the Su-
preme Court decides those questions ei-
ther unanimously or with near una-
nimity. Most cases at the Supreme
Court are decided with a vote of 9 to 0
or 8 to 1 or 7 to 2—the overwhelming
majority, in fact.
Keep in mind, these are cases that
with very few exceptions have proven
difficult for the lower courts. They
have caused some of the greatest legal
minds in our country to address the
same finite legal questions and to come
up with different results. Yet those on
the Supreme Court of the United
States, for the most part, decide these
cases with unanimity or nearly una-
nimity. Why?
Well, most of the time, they tie
themselves to the mast. They remem-
ber what is their charge. They remem-
ber that they are there not to decide
matters of policy but to decide ques-
tions of law. They can’t just reach out
and say, I don’t like this type of law.
Let’s go after this type of law and at-
tack it or undermine it or let’s pursue
this line of law that should be in place
and isn’t.
They don’t have that authority. They
have to have a case or a controversy,
meaning one or more parties that can
properly invoke the jurisdiction of the
Court, and they have to have an actual,
live, ripe dispute between people who
are actively affected by the law. Then
and only then may the Court act.
From time to time, however, the
Court has been tempted to give in to
the siren call—to make law. It isn’t al-
ways with the same political objectives
in mind, and those objectives can
change over time. To cite one of many
examples that we could point to today,
I am going to refer to a decision made
by the Supreme Court of the United
States in 1905 in a case called Lochner
v. New York.
In that case, the State of New York
had enacted some laws governing min-
imum wage and maximum hour issues
for bakery employees in the State of
New York. The Supreme Court of the
United States decided that those laws
were bad and that they didn’t like
them, and on that basis, it said in es-
sence: These laws are bad, and they are
so bad that they must be unconstitu-
tional. They are so bad, and they lack
any legitimate purpose that we can
see. We are, therefore, going to deem
this part of the due process protec-
tions, the due process protections that
are covered by the 14th Amendment to
the Constitution and allow us to im-
pose our judicial authority on State
law and invalidate that State law.
Their reasoning essentially amount-
ed to that: We don’t see any good rea-
son for this law. We, therefore, deem it
incompatible, inconsistent, irreconcil-
able with due process, and we hereby
strike it down as unconstitutional.
This, in my view, was wrong. It was
a problem. It was a political dispute
that was becoming increasingly com-
mon as the Progressive Era was gain-
ing momentum.
Conservatives in the country were
losing many of these battles in many
lawmaking bodies, including, appar-
ently, the New York State legislature.
They didn’t like it. So these particular
jurists on this particular day chose to
exercise their authority as jurists to
strike down that law even though it
was really a political argument they
were making, even though it wasn’t
within their jurisdiction.
So they stretched the meaning of the
law. They stretched out the concept of
due process so that they could declare
this to be a constitutional violation.
They took debatable matters beyond
debate—not only beyond debate, but
they took them outside the proper
realm of State law jurisdiction and
outside the context of legislation and
debate surrounding such legislation
within political branches of govern-
ments generally, whether State or Fed-
eral. They said: This is now Federal.
We are going to make it Federal, such
that you can’t legislate in this area be-
cause we don’t like it, and because we
don’t like it, we are going to say that
it is part of the Constitution; it is part
of your due process protection, not-
withstanding the fact that due process,
as the name implies, is about process.
It is about making sure that you have
your day in court, making sure that
you have access to tools connected to
fundamental fairness on procedural
questions, not an outcome.
So in Lochner v. New York, the Su-
preme Court Justices untied them-
selves, as it were, from the mast of the
Constitution. They did so in a way that
was harmful and unsustainable. They
did so notwithstanding the fact that
there was no logical end point to this.
It was very difficult to conceive of any
question of public policy that could not
and, ultimately, would not come before
the Supreme Court of the United
States if you used their standard of
analysis: This law doesn’t really do
anything good. It is not something that
has a legitimate purpose, so we are
going to strike it down.
Fortunately, the Supreme Court of
the United States—it took many years
to do it—eventually saw the error of its
ways and eventually overturned
Lochner v. New York. In many in-
stances we ought to look back at that
moment and say that we don’t really
want the Supreme Court taking debat-
able matters beyond debate. That is
how political accountability works in
this country. If you have something
that you don’t like as a matter of pol-
icy, you ought to try to change it be-
fore the legislative body in which it is
properly considered. Now, if it is un-
constitutional, yes, it should be uncon-
stitutional. I am not one who focuses
obsessively on judicial activism for
fear that by focusing obsessively on ju-
dicial activism, we will perpetuate the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.376 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6556 October 25, 2020
idea that really what we want is judi-
cial passivity. We don’t want either. It
is just as bad to invalidate as unconsti-
tutional a law that is, in fact, not un-
constitutional as it is to leave intact
an unconstitutional law that is con-
stitutionally defective. Both are equal-
ly repugnant to the Constitution. Both
represent an effort by jurists to
untether themselves from the mast of
the Constitution and from the finite ju-
dicial role.
Justice Scalia was someone who was
nominated to the Supreme Court of the
United States in 1986. He was con-
firmed overwhelmingly, by a vote of 98
to 0, if I recall.
Justice Scalia was someone who,
while a law professor, and later, while
serving as a judge on the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the DC Circuit, had ac-
knowledged the need for judges to keep
themselves tethered to the mast, had
acknowledged the need for them to
focus on deciding cases based on the
law rather than on the basis of favor-
able policy outcomes.
This was at once a somewhat revolu-
tionary idea at the time, and yet it
wasn’t overwhelmingly controversial
at the time, given the fact that he was
confirmed by a vote of 98 to 0 to the
Supreme Court of the United States.
But over the next three decades or
so, while he served on the Supreme
Court of the United States, Justice
Scalia revived—he restored—this con-
cept, this constitutional understanding
of the proper role of government and of
the proper role of each branch of the
Federal Government, including and es-
pecially the judicial branch of the Fed-
eral Government.
During his service on the Supreme
Court of the United States, he was able
to mentor a number of law clerks, in-
cluding Judge Amy Coney Barrett.
Judge Barrett has explained that she
believes in the same line of reason. She
believes that judges and Justices need
to tether themselves to the mast of the
Constitution. They need to confine
their role to that that involves judg-
ing, and they need to not covet and, ul-
timately, try to overtake the role of
the elected lawmaker or the role of the
executive. One has the power of policy
and the purse; the other, the power of
the sword.
But as Alexander Hamilton explained
in Federalist 78, there is a profound dif-
ference between these powers. The leg-
islative branch, he explained, has the
power of will. It exercises will when it
decides what should and should not be
within the law.
The power of the judiciary, by con-
trast, involves only the power of judg-
ment, to decide what the law says.
That is the kind of jurist we need
today.
Now, make no mistake—this is not a
conflict that involves a desire to put on
the Supreme Court of the United
States people who will wage political
warfare within the judicial branch
from the conservative side. It is not
that. It is not anything close to that.
In fact, it is the opposite of that.
We don’t want Judge Barrett on the
Supreme Court to be our advocate. We
want Judge Barrett on the Supreme
Court to decide law, to decide cases
based on what the law says, to keep
herself tethered to that mast because
it is through that mast that our rights
are protected, that we are able to elect
people who will exercise sound judg-
ment in deciding what the law should
be. And, yes, we want them to strike
down laws when they are unconstitu-
tional. But, no, we don’t want them
striking them down simply because of
a policy disagreement.
In fact, all of our political, our eco-
nomic, and our civil rights end up
being tied to this very feature within
our government. They are all protected
by the willingness of our jurists to
keep themselves tethered to the con-
stitutional mast, just as Odysseus in-
sisted on being tied to his. Notwith-
standing how hard he might plead upon
hearing the call of the sirens, he knew
that it was important for him to stay
on task, to stay focused on his job.
Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an ex-
ceptionally well qualified and talented
legal mind and jurist. She is bright.
She is articulate. She is, as we have
seen, unflappable, and she is willing to
set her mind on that course—to uphold
and protect and defend that document
that I believe was written by wise men
raised up by Almighty God for that
very purpose.
That document, insofar as we have
followed it, has fostered the greatest
development of the greatest civiliza-
tion the world has ever known. I hope
that it ever will be that way because it
is a strong and sure foundation upon
which we have built, but we need peo-
ple who believe in that foundation and
are willing to tie themselves to it.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, during
my time in the U.S. Senate, I have had,
right here, the privilege of being part
of the confirmation process for each
Justice currently sitting on the Su-
preme Court—yes, each one. As such,
over the years I have had the oppor-
tunity to meet with many of the Na-
tion’s most talented jurists. At this
time, I consider Judge Amy Coney Bar-
rett to be the most qualified Supreme
Court nominee I have encountered in
my 34 years in the U.S. Senate.
Let me explain.
Education—that is important. Judge
Barrett, born and raised in the New Or-
leans area, is the eldest of seven chil-
dren, as has been spoken of here. And if
you take a look at her scholastic cre-
dentials, you know she was an excep-
tional student. Judge Barrett grad-
uated magnum cum laude from Rhodes
College in Memphis, TN, and was in-
ducted into Phi Beta Kappa. She also
graduated summa cum laude from
Notre Dame Law School, where she was
the executive editor of the Notre Dame
Law Review and finished first in her
class.
Look at some of her professional ex-
perience. This is important.
Judge Barrett is no stranger to the
courtroom. She has decades of exem-
plary professional legal experience that
I believe deem her well qualified to sit
as a Supreme Court Justice.
Following law school, Judge Barrett
clerked for Justice Laurence Silber-
man of the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit. He is
a great jurist in his own right, Judge
Silberman.
One year later, she had clerked at the
U.S. Supreme Court for Justice Scalia,
one of the renowned judges, gaining
fundamental legal experience that
would help shape her future legal ca-
reer.
From there, she practiced law and
taught as a visiting professor at George
Washington University Law School
here in Washington.
Judge Barrett went on to serve as a
law professor for 15 years at her alma
mater, Notre Dame University Law
School. In that period of time, she was
awarded Notre Dame Law School’s Dis-
tinguished Professor of the Year Award
three separate times.
Most recently, in 2017, Judge Barrett
was confirmed right here in the Senate
as a judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit. And during
this time on the Seventh Circuit Court
of Appeals, she authored 79—79—major-
ity opinions as a circuit court judge.
Let’s review for a minute the judicial
philosophy and temperament of Judge
Barrett. I think that is highly impor-
tant. While her education and profes-
sional experience are certainly note-
worthy, it is her judicial philosophy
and temperament that really set her
nomination apart, I believe, from a lot
of others.
I am a firm believer that any nomi-
nee to the Supreme Court must and
should demonstrate that he or she con-
sistently and honorably applies the law
as it is written, impartially and equal-
ly to all individuals.
Judge Barrett has, time and again,
shown through her opinions and her
statements that she will base her deci-
sions on the law and the Constitution,
not on personal policy preferences, as
it should be.
She has also demonstrated a deep
commitment to the Constitution and
its protections established by our
Founding Fathers.
When considering potential nominees
to the Supreme Court, I find one’s judi-
cial temperament to be vitally impor-
tant.
The American Bar Association
Standing Committee on the Federal
Judiciary, which consists of 19 lawyers
who conduct nonpartisan peer reviews
of Federal judicial nominees, relies on
confident assessments of judges, law-
yers, law professors and deans, commu-
nity leaders, and others with knowl-
edge of the nominee.
I want to share what some of them
have said about her. For Judge Barrett,
the committee invited 944 people to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.378 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6557
October 25, 2020
provide input into whether she is quali-
fied for the Supreme Court. I would
like to share here in the Senate this
afternoon just a few of the comments
that the American Bar Association
committee provided.
They said about her, ‘‘whip smart,
highly productive, punctual and well-
prepared.’’
‘‘A brilliant writer and thinker.’’
‘‘An intellectual giant with people
skills and engaging warmth.’’
‘‘The myth is real. She is a stag-
gering academic mind.’’
Judge Barrett ‘‘has demonstrated
stellar judicial temperament in all set-
tings: She is often described as a ‘good
listener’ who makes time for people,
whether they are law students, law
clerks, colleagues or friends.’’
Of other note here, I have comments
from Randall Noel, the chair of the
American Bar Association Standing
Committee, and he said Judge Barrett
‘‘is incredibly honest and forthright.’’
Judge Barrett is an ‘‘exemplar of living
an integrated life in which her intel-
lect, integrity and compassion weave
the different threads of her life to-
gether seamlessly.’’ Think about all
this. He also says: ‘‘All of the experi-
enced, dedicated, and knowledgeable
sitting judges, legal scholars, and law-
yers who have worked with or against
Judge Barrett had high praise for her
intellect and [her] ability to commu-
nicate clearly and effectively.’’
It is no surprise that the American
Bar Association found Barrett’s profes-
sional competence to have exceeded
their high standards for Supreme Court
nominees.
As a country, we should seek, I be-
lieve, to have judges who are thought-
ful, fair-minded, and respectful. Judge
Barrett exemplifies all of these traits.
In conclusion, I believe that the role
of the Constitution of advice and con-
sent that we talk about here to the Su-
preme Court nominees to be one of my
most important responsibilities here in
the Senate. Judge Amy Coney Barrett
is as qualified for the U.S. Supreme
Court as any nominee I have encoun-
tered in 34 years here, and I have the
utmost confidence that she will serve
the Court and this country with hon-
esty and integrity. I look forward later
today to voting to confirm her nomina-
tion and encourage my colleagues to do
the same.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BREAST CANCER AWARENESS MONTH
Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, I had
the privilege to speak on the nomina-
tion of Amy Coney Barrett a couple of
days ago, for her qualifications and the
uniqueness she will bring to the Court,
which will serve our country well.
Today, I would like to speak on a dif-
ferent topic.
October is Breast Cancer Awareness
Month, and I rise to pay respect to
those who have lost their lives, to
those who currently have disease, and
to those who work so hard to save
these patients.
A little personal—my wife, Dr. Laura
Cassidy, is a retired breast cancer sur-
geon, so it is an issue which has always
been very near to our house.
This year, it is estimated there will
be almost 280,000 new cases of invasive
breast cancer among women and about
2,600 among men—often not realized
that men are affected as well. About
49,000 women are estimated to contract
ductal carcinoma in situ, or so-called
DCIS. About 43,000 Americans every
year will die from breast cancer.
Breast cancer, of course, is hardest
on the patient, but the diagnosis has a
ripple effect through the family. I men-
tioned that my wife Laura is a retired
breast cancer surgeon, and she would
tell me that when she would deliver the
diagnosis to a patient, she would look
at the woman and say: ‘‘You have
breast cancer.’’ The patient would be
stoic, and her husband would cry. It
points to the fact that while cancer is
a terrible diagnosis for anyone, when
that ‘‘anyone’’ happens to be the cen-
ter of a family, it radiates out from her
diagnosis to touch everybody in her
immediate family, in the generation
above, and perhaps the generation
below.
We have been inspired to make gains
against cancer in general but against
breast cancer in particular for the cen-
trality that women play in our society
and, of course, the deadliness of breast
cancer.
So it takes courage to address the
disease if you have a diagnosis, and re-
siliency and determination just seem
to develop in those who are so diag-
nosed.
The support of family and friends
means a lot more to the patient than
the family will ever know, so I encour-
age those who know somebody with
breast cancer in particular that I am
speaking of but any form of cancer to
reach out. Simply being there could
make a tremendous difference in the
fight to survive.
Let me say, there is always hope. In
addition to early detection, there are
steps that people can take to reduce
their risk of contracting breast cancer.
Age is the primary risk—no, the pri-
mary risk factor, my wife used to say
when speaking to a crowd, the primary
risk factor for breast cancer is being a
woman, to emphasize that all women
have a risk for breast cancer. So don’t
just say that because I am not this or
that, I am not at risk. Recognize that
all women have a risk.
Age would be the next risk factor,
being that the older you are the more
likely that you can develop it. Women
who have children after age 35 may be
at higher risk. The more children a
woman gives birth to may lower risk.
But, again, the primary risk of breast
cancer is being a woman. So every
woman should take the disease seri-
ously and take steps to reduce her risk
for developing breast cancer, increas-
ing the chances that it is detected if
she does develop it, and increasing the
chance for a successful treatment if it
does develop.
There are steps you can take to re-
duce the risk. Regular exercise can re-
duce the risk by as much as 20 percent.
Breast feeding lowers the risk of breast
cancer. Eating fruits and vegetables,
especially carotenoids, which are in
carrots, as you might guess from
‘‘carotenoids,’’ avoiding obesity, mod-
eration in drinking alcohol—all can re-
duce risk, and all should be practiced.
Although a cancer diagnosis can be
shocking, again, you can do things to
detect it at an earlier stage and im-
prove the chance of a successful out-
come. The American Cancer Society
advises women 40 to 44 to consult with
their doctor for regular clinical exams
and on guidance as to when it is best to
have a mammogram. Women who are
45 to 54 should have an annual mammo-
gram, and those older than 54 and in
good health should have a mammo-
gram every 2 years. But, again, check
with your doctor. All of these need to
be customized for the patient.
Patients should also do self-exams
for warning signs. This could be a
change in the look or feel of the breast
or possible discharge from the nipple.
The presence of a lump, swelling, dis-
coloration, and changes in size and
shape are common signs. If these are
present, she should consult with her
healthcare provider.
If someone doesn’t know how to do a
breast self-exam, look on the internet.
There are all kinds of resources that
can help somebody know if they are
just not sure how to do it.
Lastly, the treatments for breast
cancer continue to improve. The sur-
gical radiation therapy and medical
therapies are improving every year. A
diagnosis of breast cancer is not a
death sentence; it is the beginning of a
treatment regimen which can cure.
Now, by the way, let me diverge just
a second from October being Breast
Cancer Awareness Month to the con-
temporary thing we are speaking of.
My Democratic colleagues on the
floor have been imagining how a Jus-
tice Amy Coney Barrett would rule on
various topics—frankly, saying things
that are designed to cause fear, and
they are doing it for political gain. But
I think everybody on this side of the
aisle—all Republicans have a commit-
ment to make sure that all Americans
have healthcare and that they have
coverage for preexisting conditions.
I am a doctor who worked in the pub-
lic hospital system for many years, but
some stories particularly stand out.
This is a patient of my wife’s, and she
was probably about 45 and had three
children. Her husband had died or they
divorced—I forget which. They lived in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.379 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6558 October 25, 2020
a very nice neighborhood in my home-
town of Baton Rouge. She drove a nice
car. But when her husband left, how-
ever he left, she had decisions to make,
and she made the decision to go with-
out health insurance so she could af-
ford other things for her family.
At some point along the way, she felt
a lump in her breast, but without
health insurance, she didn’t know what
to do. My wife was a breast cancer sur-
geon in private practice, but eventu-
ally someone connected this patient
with my wife. When she came to see
my wife, she had waited so long for
evaluation that the cancer was growing
out of her skin. It is called fungating,
like a mushroom grows out, except it
wasn’t a mushroom; it was cancer eat-
ing through the skin. She had every-
thing otherwise—great house, good car,
wonderful kids in parochial school.
It is that sort of example that touch-
es us all, that lets us all realize that
there is a personal reason why we all
care about everyone having access to
healthcare, why we all care about folks
having coverage for preexisting condi-
tions.
I give congratulations to my col-
league sitting in the chair, the Senator
from North Carolina, who brought a
bill up that would address preexisting
conditions. But on several occasions,
my Democratic colleagues have ob-
jected to your bill being passed that
would protect those with preexisting
conditions.
So I will end this paragraph where I
began it. As I digress a little bit from
Breast Cancer Awareness Month in Oc-
tober, I will point out that my Demo-
cratic fellow Senators raising the issue
of preexisting conditions in the setting
of Amy Coney Barrett seem to be doing
it more for political gain because the
bill that my colleague from North
Carolina offered would have addressed
the issue, but they opposed it uni-
formly, as if they want an issue to
campaign on but not a solution to the
problem.
So let me conclude. As October
comes to a close, let us reflect on
breast cancer victims not only in the
final days of Breast Cancer Awareness
Month but throughout the year. Know
the risk factors, know the warning
signs, and screen regularly to catch
early. Doing so saves lives. It is impor-
tant for the person who may have
breast cancer. It is important for us
all.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado.
COLORADO WILDFIRES
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, yes-
terday I came to the floor and spoke
about the forest fires in Colorado, and
luckily we have had a great deal of
snow on some of the most problematic
conflagrations, and it has slowed the
fires down tremendously and has given
us a chance to fight back and make
some containment progress. So the
news on the fire front is generally a
good-news story today, with more chal-
lenges to come down the road.
NOMINATION OF AMY CONEY BARRETT
Mr. President, this morning I come
to the floor to talk about the nomina-
tion of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to be
placed on the U.S. Supreme Court.
That will be the third Supreme Court
Justice I have had the honor and privi-
lege of voting on this Congress and the
previous Congress, including Neil
Gorsuch, Colorado’s own Neil Gorsuch.
We have heard a lot of discussion
about the Federalist Papers and our
Founding Fathers and the intent and
the role of the Senate. The language of
the Constitution points out that the
President shall nominate and, with the
advice and consent of the Senate, place
Justices throughout our judiciary.
We have heard in Federalist 69 by
Alexander Hamilton, the President is
to nominate and, with the advice and
consent of the Senate, to appoint Am-
bassadors and other public ministers,
Justices of the Supreme Court.
In Federalist 69, Hamilton goes on to
compare the power of appointment
that the President has or the Chief Ex-
ecutive has to that of the King of Great
Britain, even comparing the power of
appointment to the Governor of New
York—Alexander Hamilton in Fed-
eralist 69 did—and he stated that both
the King and the Governor of New York
at that time had a greater power of ap-
pointment than the President due to
the requirement of advice and consent
and the ability of the Governor of New
York to actually cast a vote on the
matter himself. To quote Alexander
Hamilton, ‘‘In the national govern-
ment, if the Senate should be divided,
no appointment could be made.’’ He
pointed out that the President has a
concurrent authority in appointing of-
fices and the President is not the sole
author of these appointments.
It is clear in Alexander Hamilton’s
writings that this power was intended
to be diluted; that it was to be bal-
anced amongst the Chambers; that the
judicial branch was viewed as the
weakest of the three branches of gov-
ernment, not because it wasn’t equal in
power but because it didn’t have some
of the mechanisms that the other two
branches do to protect it.
While the President makes that ap-
pointment, it is this Chamber—the sole
duty of this Chamber, in the Constitu-
tion, to agree or disagree with that
nomination.
We saw that disagreement occur in
2016 when this Chamber did not give its
consent to a nomination. Later, Neil
Gorsuch—Colorado’s Neil Gorsuch—
was confirmed to the Supreme Court.
And just a matter of a little more than
a month ago, we lost a trailblazing
leader in Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg,
leaving open another seat on the Su-
preme Court that we are now asked to
fill.
Federalist 78, also written by Alex-
ander Hamilton, has been referenced
many times on the floor this past year,
and particularly during this debate. He
wrote about the Constitution being
fundamental law, that it is the will of
the people and that the courts are the
only true guardians—the only true
guardians—of the Constitution; that
the Constitution is the highest man-
made law, that any legislative act to
the contrary must be held void by the
court, since ‘‘the interpretation of the
laws is the proper and peculiar prov-
ince of the courts’’—that it was the
guardian of the Constitution.
When Madison was talking about this
in the First Congress, he introduced, of
course, the amendments that became
what we call the Bill of Rights today.
He said that the courts would ‘‘con-
sider themselves in a peculiar manner
the guardians of those rights; they
would be an impenetrable bulwark
against every assumption of power in
the legislative or executive; they will
be naturally led to resist every en-
croachment upon rights expressly stip-
ulated for in the Constitution by the
declaration of rights.’’
That idea of this ‘‘guardian of the
Constitution’’ that the courts play is a
hallmark of our democracy today. And
whether or not a Justice has the sup-
port of a Member of this Chamber, I
don’t believe that anyone would deny
that role that our courts must play,
and that is that role as guardian of the
Constitution.
It is clear in the confirmation hear-
ing for Judge Barrett that some people
believe the guardian of the Constitu-
tion takes on a different hue, that
there is more to that role than simply
looking at the law and making a deci-
sion based on the law. As some called
it—I believe it was Justice Scalia and
perhaps paraphrased by Justice
Gorsuch—a judge’s role is to call balls
and strikes. I would add to that it is
not their role to call the pitch.
But what we saw during the Judici-
ary Committee hearings, of course, was
a viewpoint of some that a judge
should be more than calling balls and
strikes. A judge should be, in effect, a
super legislator; that a judge should
accomplish things that this Chamber,
this Congress, has failed to do; that if
there is a shortcoming in a policy, a
judge or Justice would look the other
way and fill in that policy or write
that policy or proactively create that
policy.
That is, again, going back to what we
have known throughout this country as
the guardians of the Constitution. The
guardians of the Constitution don’t
make up policy. They don’t fill voids of
new policies that the legislators didn’t
do or couldn’t do because they couldn’t
get it through their Chamber. So they
decided they would count on a judge to
do it somewhere else. That is not the
role of the courts. It is certainly not
the role of a guardian of the Constitu-
tion.
A guardian of the Constitution is
somebody who looks at the law and
makes decisions on the law and up-
holds and protects that will of the peo-
ple, the fundamental law of the people.
And, of course, an activist judge—an
activist Justice—would be reaching
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.381 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6559
October 25, 2020
into the law to fit their own personal
opinion or beliefs to craft something
that they believe is perhaps more in
line with what they thought somebody
wanted and more in line with their own
opinions, instead of looking at that let-
ter of the law.
I think it is important that we keep
in mind that that is not the role of the
courts. If this Chamber can’t pass a
policy or a law, if it can’t have its own
victory in carrying the day in an argu-
ment, it is not up to a judge or a Jus-
tice to fill in the blank. They have to
rule and carry out the law.
So that is a real key distinction that
we saw during the Judiciary Com-
mittee debates—that role of policy-
maker that some wish Judge Barrett to
be versus that role of protector, that
guardian of the Constitution, calling
balls and strikes.
I look at any nominee for the courts,
whether it is for district court or ap-
pellate court or the Supreme Court,
through this lens: Are they going to
protect that Constitution? Are they
going to uphold the Constitution? Are
they going to fight and defend and be
the guardian of the Constitution? Are
they going to protect and do the same
with the law, outside of the Constitu-
tion—the laws, the statutes that this
body enacts and passes and are signed
into law by the President? Will that
judge or Justice uphold and defend that
law—not make that law, not change
that law but uphold the law? And, of
course, there is that guardian of the
Constitution role that they will play.
There is no doubt that Judge
Barrett’s qualifications are immense.
Her qualifications as a member of our
great American community and some-
body with a beautiful family is mind-
boggling. Jaime and I have a challenge
with our three kids, making sure they
get to school on time and making sure
they are getting their homework done.
I can’t imagine seven children, while
also carrying the schedule that their
family does. But it is a testament to
the incredible power and the leadership
of their family and their dedication to
being upstanding citizens of this Na-
tion and giving back to this Nation
with this new pursuit.
We know about that key intellect
that has been shared with this country
over the last several years in the Sev-
enth Circuit Court of Appeals. We
know of her time as a law professor,
and we have had the opportunity to
look over a decade-plus worth of work.
We know that she is a person of faith
in our community and has come under
incredible attacks because of that
faith. We know in this Chamber that
our Constitution actually forbids the
kinds of attacks that we have seen on
her faith. Our Constitution makes it
clear that there is no religious test.
Our Constitution actually makes it
very clear that you cannot vote or
deny public service appointment to
someone because of their religious be-
liefs.
We have seen it done. We have seen it
tried, especially over the last Congress.
We saw it done at the Budget Com-
mittee with the nomination of Russ
Vought to be the deputy director of the
Office of Management and Budget,
when a colleague of ours basically said
that because of his deeply held Chris-
tian beliefs that he was not qualified to
be a public servant in this country.
I hope the American people are hear-
ing what is happening in some of these
debates, that Amy Coney Barrett is at-
tacked because of her faith. But it is
not just limited or isolated to her.
There are others who are more and
more accustomed, or who feel more and
more empowered, emboldened to use a
person’s faith to deny them their vote
to a position in our government. That
is an unconstitutional test that some
in this Chamber are starting to rely on,
and I hope the American people will
use this opportunity to see through it,
to reject it, and to get back to the val-
ues of our Constitution and the intent
of that language.
I had a conversation with Judge Bar-
rett. I had a chance to visit with her,
and I talked about those three quali-
fications to uphold the Constitution.
Will you fight to protect the Constitu-
tion? Will you protect the law? And
will you avoid being that activist legis-
lator? Will you avoid legislating from
the bench? And I received her commit-
ment. That is exactly the kind of judge
that she will be, somebody to be that
guardian of the Constitution, the pro-
tector of law, and to call balls and
strikes.
I talked to her about the importance
that I know that the vote that I cast
for her is something that matters not
just next year or the next year but 10
or 20 years from now, as she is on that
Court and that that same view will re-
main, and she assured me that it will
because of the same reason that I want
it to. That is the future of our kids and
their kids, and she knows it means ev-
erything to her children as well—to
protect our Nation’s laws and Constitu-
tion and to avoid that attempt, that
desire, that pull at the heart to legis-
late. Even if you want to come out
with an opinion that is different than
your own interpretation of the law, you
have to follow the law, and that is
what she has assured me she has done.
She has assured me that there are mo-
ments in rulings that she has issued
that she would have preferred a dif-
ferent outcome personally, but that is
not what the law required, and that is
why she ruled the way that she did.
In talking to my colleagues on the
Judiciary Committee, they talked
about her understanding of the law,
and in watching the hearings, you
could sense the deep commitment and
devotion to the law. There was a time
several decades ago, when President
Ronald Reagan went to introduce Jus-
tice Sandra Day O’Connor to a group of
Federal judges at the White House, and
Ronald Reagan in his speech talked
about what it means to be a judge. He
talked about the exacting standards of
integrity and fairness and intellect
that are required for a Federal judge-
ship—that it provides reassurance to
all of us that our ideals of liberty and
justice are alive and well.
He went on to talk about the most
important quality that we could have
in a judge, and that was wisdom. That
wisdom is the quality that we look for
most, and I think you could sense a
great deal of wisdom in Amy Coney
Barrett.
He went on to say that we demand of
our judges a wisdom that knows no
time, has no prejudice, and wants no
other reward. We entrust judges with
our ideals and freedom, and our futures
depend on the way that judge defines
them. It requires the lonely courage of
a patriot. And he went on to say: A
judge is a guardian of freedom for gen-
erations yet unborn.
So, I hope that my colleagues will
support the nomination of Amy Coney
Barrett. If you could take the politics
out of the place, she would probably
have a unanimous vote. Unfortunately,
the politicization of this nomination is
going to prevent that. But I just urge
my colleagues to look past the politics,
to look past the partisanship, and to
vote for a truly qualified justice who is
committed to the law and to the Con-
stitution, who is committed against ac-
tivism on the bench, and who will
make sure that our country, for gen-
erations to come, has a protector of
that guardian of the Constitution with
the wisdom to get the job done.
I urge my colleagues to support Jus-
tice Amy Coney Barrett, and I am hon-
ored, in just a few hours, to know that
I will be able to cast a vote in support
of soon-to-be Justice Amy Coney Bar-
rett.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
GARDNER). The Senator from North
Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I thank
my staff, Elliott—who is on the floor—
Brad, Cirilo, Seth, and Brad for all the
work that they have done as we have
gone through the nomination process.
I was reviewing my prepared remarks
this morning, and then I reflected back
on a very important moment during
the Judiciary Committee hearing
where Senator CORNYN asked—he said:
You can see, among all of us, we have
three-ring binders; we have staff behind
us; we have taken weeks to prepare;
and you are about to go through some
20 hours of questions, would you mind
sharing with us your notes? She looked
at a blank notepad that was given to
her by the chairman. It had nothing on
it.
She came to that committee fully
prepared to answer any question from
the 22 members of the Judiciary Com-
mittee purely from what is up there,
and she did an extraordinary job.
The reason she did an extraordinary
job is because she has had an extraor-
dinary career, beginning as a student,
then going to Rhodes College, where
she was magna cum laude, then going
to Notre Dame School of Law, where
she graduated first in her class.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.382 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6560 October 25, 2020
She went on to be a professor at
Notre Dame, and she was, multiple
times, voted the Distinguished Pro-
fessor by a broad spectrum of liberal
and conservative students.
She has also proven as a judge, with
some 600 cases going through the Sev-
enth Circuit, that she has an encyclo-
pedic knowledge of that law. There
were so many times when members on
the other side of the aisle would try to
trip her up or ask her a question. She
had no notes to refer to. She got the
specifics of the case right.
What she demonstrated throughout
the entire hearing process, which I at-
tended, was that she interprets—she
does her job by doing two things: look-
ing at the plain letter of the Constitu-
tion, understanding the limits that the
laws can have within the bounds of the
Constitution, and rule accordingly.
Now, our colleagues on the other side
of the aisle of the Judiciary Committee
were constantly—it was clear to me,
after weeks of attacking Amy Coney
Barrett, not directly but through sur-
rogates, that they were trying to de-
monize this person before she ever
came before the committee, like they
did with Justice Kavanaugh. But each
and every time they asked her a ques-
tion, she brought them back to the
boundaries of the Constitution and the
question of law before, in her case, the
circuit court, and there was just no
way to trip her up.
So then what happened? Then they
started talking about how you are
going to go to the Supreme Court, and
you are going to overturn the Afford-
able Care Act. They asked her ques-
tions that they knew she couldn’t an-
swer. Justice Ginsburg, pursuant to the
Ginsburg rule—they had no intention—
no responsible judge would go before
the Judiciary Committee and tell you
how they are going to rule on a future
case. It is actually a violation of their
code of conduct.
So she told them in so many in-
stances—and what was interesting with
some of the members on the other side
of the aisle was, on the one hand, they
would say: You cannot overturn this
precedent or that precedent, and in the
same breath, they would say: But we
want to make sure you overturn this
precedent or that precedent. And every
time, Amy Coney Barrett was calm and
composed and demonstrated to every-
body in that committee that she is
going to be objective; she is going to be
fair; and she is going to stay within the
lines of the Constitution and the mat-
ter of law that is before her.
Now, I think that it is very impor-
tant to have a judge like that on the
Supreme Court. Our religious freedoms
are at stake. Our Second Amendment
rights are at stake. We do have people
who want activist judges. I don’t want
an activist judge, period—not for a con-
servative cause or a liberal cause. I
want a judge whom I know that if I
someday go before the Supreme
Court—or any American—that I have a
judge there who is going to be fair, who
is going to be thoughtful, who is going
to be impartial, and who will always
have a concern for both sides of the ar-
gument, but at the end of the day,
know that they have a responsibility
to judge objectively.
I have had a couple of opportunities
to meet with Amy Coney Barrett. In
the last meeting that I had with her in
the Capitol, just a few steps away from
where we are right now, I brought two
pocket Constitutions with me. I said: I
have two granddaughters—one will be 3
next week; the other one is a little over
2 months old. I said: Would you mind
signing these Constitutions for Sawyer
and Willow, my granddaughters? She
said: Certainly. She opened it up, she
signed her name and just said: ‘‘Dream
big.’’
When they get a little bit older—they
are not old enough yet—I am going to
get them to understand the signifi-
cance of that quick note from an in-
credible jurist, somebody who dreamed
big and realized her American dream—
a mother of seven school-aged children,
two adopted from Haiti, one with spe-
cial needs.
She is going to be the first Supreme
Court Justice female on the Supreme
Court with school-age children. She
has seven of them. She is able to man-
age the stresses and the challenges of
being a working mom while she served
with distinction on the Seventh Circuit
and while her husband worked as well.
She has realized her American dream. I
believe that she is going to make sure
that everybody else has the freedoms
to do the same thing.
I think Judge Amy Coney Barrett is
going to go down in history as one of
the great Justices on the U.S. Supreme
Court.
It is a shame, as the Presiding Officer
just said in his comments a moment
ago, that this is even a divided deci-
sion. In a less political time than we
find ourselves today, I suspect that she
would have the unanimous support of
this body, much the same way that
Justice Ginsburg did when she came
before the Senate.
But, today, I am looking forward to
voting for Judge Amy Coney Barrett. I
am looking forward to watching her
build on what is already a very strong
legacy. I am looking forward to mak-
ing sure that we continue to have a
Court that is independent, impartial,
focuses on protecting all of our con-
stitutional rights and freedoms. And I
know, without a doubt, Amy Coney
Barrett is going to be one of those
stewards in the U.S. Supreme Court.
I rise today to express my strong sup-
port for the confirmation of our next
Supreme Court Justice, Judge Amy
Coney Barrett. Over the last few
weeks, I have heard from thousands of
North Carolinians asking me to vote to
confirm Judge Barrett to the Supreme
Court.
Judge Barrett is an incredibly quali-
fied nominee.
She is a top-notch legal scholar and
jurist. She is widely respected within
the legal community, and after three
days of intense questioning by the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee, I can see
why she is so widely respected and why
all of her former law school colleagues
at Notre Dame Law School support her
nomination.
I was especially impressed with her
composure and impressive knowledge
of the law as she answered unfounded
allegations about her judicial record
from Democratic members of the com-
mittee, and shameful smears radical
liberals. The way she handled this
process I am more convinced than ever
that she clearly has the judicial tem-
perament required to serve as a Justice
on the U.S. Supreme Court.
Her answers made clear that she will
be unbiased and fair to every party
that comes before her. She made clear
that she will interpret the law as writ-
ten, without regard for her personal
views or feeling, and will not be a legis-
lator from the bench. Legislating is our
job, not hers.
She is truly a textualist in the mold
of Justice Scalia.
Her commitment to applying the law
as written, and not legislating from the
Bench, should be the standard for every
nominee. I am confident that with
Judge Barrett on the Court, Americans
can rest easy knowing their religious
liberty and second amendment rights
are secure.
Soon, I will cast my vote to confirm
Judge Barrett, as Justice Barrett. But
first, I must also address the dangerous
rhetoric from my Democratic col-
leagues.
First, they claim this nomination is
somehow illegitimate. That is false. If
the media wasn’t so biased this claim
would be dismissed outright. As Jus-
tice Ginsburg said, a President is elect-
ed for 4 years, not 3. President Trump
fulfilled the duty he owes to the mil-
lions of Americans who elected him in
2016.
Similarly, voters elected a Repub-
lican majority to the U.S. Senate.
Voters expanded that majority in
2018, and now we are fulfilling the duty
we owe to those voters by voting on
Judge Barrett’s nomination.
My Democratic colleagues are also
threatening to pack the Court if they
take control of the Senate and White
House. Just as Democrats misrepre-
sented Judge Barrett’s record, they are
misrepresenting what it means to pack
the Court.
Packing the Court means adding
more seats to the Supreme Court and
then immediately nominating and fill-
ing these new seats with radical liberal
activists. They would add seats until
there is an activist liberal majority on
the court. And the reason is simple:
they want the Court to legislate from
the Bench and impose their socialist
agenda on the country through fiat, in-
stead of working through the Demo-
cratic process.
This would wholly undermine and
delegitimize the Court. Justice Gins-
burg agreed. She said that ‘‘nine is a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.384 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6561
October 25, 2020
good number’’ and that packing the
Court is a bad idea.
Democrats need to be honest with
the American people. The American
people deserve to know where they
stand on Court packing, and they de-
serve to know what liberal activist
judges Joe Biden would nominate if he
were President.
Personally, I am thankful Judge Bar-
rett was willing to answer the call to
serve our country. Just like Justice
Ginsburg was an inspiration to so
many, Justice Barrett will be a role
model for young women, like my two
granddaughters, who may one day as-
pire to go to law school or serve their
country.
I look forward to voting soon to con-
firm her, and I would ask all my col-
leagues to join me and do the same.
Thank you. I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise in
opposition to the pending confirmation
vote of Amy Coney Barrett to be an As-
sociate Justice of the Supreme Court
to fill the vacancy created by the death
of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, whom
we lost in September of this year. Jus-
tice Ginsburg was a champion of wom-
en’s rights and civil rights, and she is
going to be sorely missed on that
Court.
Article II, section 2 of the Constitu-
tion provides that the ‘‘President shall
nominate, and by and with the Advice
and Consent of the Senate, shall ap-
point . . . Judges of the Supreme
Court.’’ One of a Senator’s most sol-
emn responsibility is to evaluate the
nominee’s qualifications as well as the
process the Senate uses to provide
their advice and consent for a lifetime
appointment to our highest Court. I be-
lieve, on both substance and process,
this nomination should be rejected.
First, on process. Let’s talk about
fairness. Let’s talk about the integrity
of the Senate. Let’s talk about living
up to your own words. Let’s talk about
using the same rules for Republicans
that you use for Democrats.
Let me remind my colleagues what
happened in 2016 in the Senate during
President Obama’s final year of a term
in office in a Presidential election
year. Justice Scalia died in February of
2016. Within just a few hours after the
death of Justice Scalia, Leader MCCON-
NELL unilaterally announced that the
Senate would not consider a replace-
ment for Justice Scalia until after the
November 2016 Presidential election,
which established a yearlong vacant
Supreme Court seat.
The Republican leader’s action,
backed by his caucus, set a very clear
precedent: Under no circumstances do
Senate Republicans consider a Su-
preme Court nominee in a Presidential
election year.
It did not matter that in March 2016,
President Obama appointed Merrick
Garland, a respected DC Circuit judge,
with bipartisan support. They would
not meet with Judge Garland, hold a
hearing, or allow a vote on him for 293
days.
In 2016, the Presidential election was
nearly 9 months away. Four years ago,
our Republican colleagues said: 9
months was not time enough. Leave it
up to the voters. We will do this wheth-
er it is a Democrat or Republican in
the White House.
The Republican leader, MITCH
MCCONNELL, said:
Mr. President, the next Justice could fun-
damentally alter the direction of the Su-
preme Court and have a profound impact on
our country, so of course—of course the
American people should have a say in the
Court’s direction. . . . The American people
may well elect a President who decides to
nominate Judge Garland for Senate consider-
ation. The next President may also nominate
somebody very different. Either way, our
view is this: Give the people a voice in filling
this vacancy. . . . The American people are
perfectly capable of having their say on this
issue, so [let’s give] them a voice. Let’s let
the American people decide. . . . The Amer-
ican people should have a voice in selection
of the next Supreme Court Justice. There-
fore, this vacancy should not be filled until
we have a new President.
That was the Republican leader.
Several Judiciary Committee mem-
bers made similar statements after the
death of Justice Scalia. Senators
GRASSLEY, GRAHAM, CORNYN, LEE, and
CRUZ signed a letter to Leader MCCON-
NELL, which read, in part as follows:
[W]e are in the midst of a great national
debate over the course our country will take
in the coming years. The Presidential elec-
tion is well underway. Americans have al-
ready begun to cast their votes. As we mourn
the tragic loss of Justice . . . Scalia and cel-
ebrate his life’s work, the American people
are presented with an exceedingly rare op-
portunity to decide, in a very real and con-
crete way, the direction the Court will take
over the next generation.
The letter from my Republican col-
leagues concluded:
We believe The People should have the op-
portunity. . . . Because our decision is based
on constitutional principle and born of a ne-
cessity to protect the will of the American
people, this Committee will not hold hear-
ings on any Supreme Court nominee until
after our next President is sworn in on Janu-
ary 20, 2017.
Current Judiciary Committee Chair-
man GRAHAM explicitly addressed this
point in 2016. In March 2016, Senator
GRAHAM, then a member of the Judici-
ary Committee, said:
I want you to use my words against me. If
there is a Republican President in 2016 and a
vacancy occurs in the last year of the first
term, you can say, LINDSEY GRAHAM said let
the next president, whoever it might be,
make that nomination. You can use my
words against me, and you’d be absolutely
right.
We are setting precedent here
today—Republicans are—that in the
last year of a Presidential term, you
are not going to fill a vacancy on the
Supreme Court based on what we are
doing here today. That is going to be
the new rule.
I have repeatedly stated that the
election cycle is well underway, and
the precedent of the Senate is not to
confirm a nominee at this stage of the
process. By the way, Senator GRAHAM
reaffirmed that in 2018.
In the case of Justice Ginsburg’s
death and vacancy in 2020, we are about
40 days away from a general election—
not 9 months. Mail-in voting in record
numbers has already begun in several
States. And, of course, early voting has
started in many States also. We are
proceeding to a final vote on this nomi-
nee for a lifetime appointment just
days before election day. Americans,
millions of Americans, have already
cast their ballots.
Once again, within hours of Justice
Ginsburg’s death, Leader MCCONNELL
unilaterally decreed that the Senate
would fill the vacancy before the elec-
tion. Leader MCCONNELL said that
‘‘President Trump’s nominee will re-
ceive a vote on the floor of the Sen-
ate.’’
So I implore my Republican col-
leagues to stop this blatant hypocrisy
now. Let’s follow the McConnell rule
and let the American people pick the
next President and Senate so they can
weigh in on this decision, just as Sen-
ator MCCONNELL argued in 2016, when
President Obama nominated Merrick
Garland for Justice Scalia’s seat.
Let the Senate honor Justice Gins-
burg’s legacy by continuing to fight for
the rights she fought for her entire ca-
reer, both as a litigator, a circuit
judge, and, finally, as a Supreme Court
Justice. Let us honor Justice Gins-
burg’s dying wish: ‘‘My most fervent
wish is that I will not be replaced until
a new President is installed.’’
President Trump’s agenda is quite
clear when it comes to a tragedy for
the Supreme Court. President Trump
has repeatedly said he would appoint
Justices in the mold of Justice Scalia.
As President Trump said on the cam-
paign trail, when asked what kind of
Justice he would nominate, ‘‘We’re
going to have a very strong test. We
want . . . strong conservative people
that are extremely smart. Scalia is a
terrific judge. Clarence Thomas, you
look at him, he’s been a stalwart, he’s
been terrific, and we have others.’’
President Trump also talked about
the type of Justices he did not like
when on the campaign trail. He said:
I’m disappointed in Roberts because he
gave us Obamacare. He had two chances to
end Obamacare, he should have ended it by
every single measurement and he didn’t do
it, so that was a disappointing one. Every-
body thought he was good, he was a Bush ap-
pointee, he was somebody that should have,
frankly, ended Obamacare, and he didn’t.
When President Trump announced
Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s nomina-
tion to the Supreme Court, Barrett
herself highlighted the ideological par-
allels between her and her mentor, Jus-
tice Scalia. She said about Justice
Scalia: ‘‘His judicial philosophy is
mine, too.’’
Judge Barrett was a Supreme Court
clerk for Justice Scalia. Justice Scalia
was one of the most staunchly conserv-
ative members of the Supreme Court.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.177 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6562 October 25, 2020
Justice Scalia voted to strike down
key parts of the Affordable Care Act.
He frequently called for overturning
Roe v. Wade. He opposed marriage
equality. He voted to gut the protec-
tions for voting rights in the Shelby
case. He voted to gut our campaign fi-
nance laws in the Citizens United case.
He made it harder for workers dis-
criminated against by their employers
to seek justice in court and further
stacked the deck in favor of wealthy
business owners and corporations over
working-class individuals.
By nominating Judge Barrett, Presi-
dent Trump is attempting to bring Jus-
tice Scalia’s judicial philosophy back
to the mainstream in our Nation’s
highest Court. Placing Judge Barrett
on the Supreme Court puts at risk so
many of the rights and protections
Americans have fought for and gained.
So let’s look at how the law could
change if Judge Barrett is confirmed.
That is the second reason to oppose
this nomination—her judicial philos-
ophy—in addition to the flawed proc-
ess.
You cannot always predict how a Su-
preme Court Justice will act after her
confirmation, but Judge Barrett has
given us clear views on her philosophy.
So many American rights are on the
line, but let me start by talking about
the Affordable Care Act.
Judge Barrett has made her views
quite clear about the Affordable Care
Act. In a 2017 law review article, she
concluded that the ACA is unconstitu-
tional. She wrote: ‘‘Chief Justice Rob-
erts pushed the Affordable Care Act be-
yond its plausible meaning to save the
statute.’’
Judge Barrett argued that Chief Jus-
tice Roberts’ approach to NFIB v.
Sebelius, which was joined by Justice
Ginsburg, ‘‘express[ed] a commitment
to judicial restraint by creatively in-
terpreting ostensibly clear statutory
language’’ and that ‘‘its approach is at
odds with the statutory textualism to
which most originalists subscribe.’’
In another Supreme Court case, King
v. Burwell, the Supreme Court, in the
6–3 decision joined by Justice Ginsburg,
affirmed health insurance tax credits
for millions of families. Nearly 9 mil-
lion Americans depend on these tax
credits for coverage.
Barrett criticized the decision, stat-
ing:
I think the dissent has the better of the
legal arguments.
Elsewhere, she wrote:
Justice Scalia, criticizing the majority’s
construction of the Affordable Care Act in
NFIB v. Sebelius and King v. Burwell, pro-
tested that the statute known as ObamaCare
should be renamed ‘‘SCOTUScare’’ in honor
of the Court’s willingness to ‘‘rewrite’’ the
statute in order to keep it afloat. . . . By
this measure, it is illegitimate for the Court
to distort either the Constitution or a stat-
ute to achieve what it deems a preferable re-
sult.
It is clear to me—and it should be
clear to all of us—that Judge Barrett
has a clear bias against the Affordable
Care Act. President Trump has repeat-
edly stated that he would appoint
judges who would overturn the ACA
and has consistently done so in terms
of his appellate and trial court nomina-
tions. Judge Barrett appears to meet
President Trump’s litmus test.
I mention these cases to underscore
the importance of the Supreme Court
Justice in the lives of all Americans.
So much is at stake in the filling of
Justice Ginsburg’s vacancy. Your
healthcare is literally on the line.
The Affordable Care Act that Presi-
dent Trump has tried to repeal and
that Republicans tried to repeal in this
body but have failed, they are now
going to take it to the Supreme Court.
A hearing is scheduled this November
10 in the case of California v. Texas,
just 1 week after the general election.
This is a real risk for tens of millions
of Americans who depend on the law
for their healthcare coverage and other
benefits. Twenty million Americans
could lose their healthcare, and people
with preexisting conditions could lose
those protections. That is 133 million
Americans, during the coronavirus
pandemic. That is what is at stake.
We are talking about pregnancy, can-
cer, diabetes, high blood pressure, be-
havioral health disorders, high choles-
terol, asthma, chronic lung disease,
heart disease, and numerous others
that have been held to be preexisting
conditions before the protection in the
Affordable Care Act. And you can now
add COVID to those preexisting condi-
tions for 8 million Americans and
counting. That protection is in the Af-
fordable Care Act. This is on the line
before the Supreme Court this Novem-
ber.
If the Affordable Care Act is struck
down, insurers could bring back annual
lifetime limits on coverage. Adults
covered by Medicare expansion would
lose vital health services. Young people
would be kicked off of their parents’ in-
surance. And insurers could sell
skimpy plans that don’t even cover es-
sential health benefits like prescrip-
tion drugs, emergency room visits,
mental health, substance use, and ma-
ternity care.
The Affordable Care Act increased
access to care for millions who were
previously uninsured or underinsured.
Through Medicaid expansion, 13 mil-
lion low-income Americans now have
dependable, comprehensive health cov-
erage. In Maryland alone, over 1.3 mil-
lion low-income individuals depend on
Medicaid, including 512,000 low-income
children, 107,000 seniors, and 152,000 in-
dividuals with disabilities. That is just
in Maryland.
We must protect the Medicaid expan-
sion population and other uninsured
and underinsured populations from the
Trump administration’s effort to elimi-
nate their access to affordable care. It
is at risk.
I have similar concerns about wom-
en’s healthcare issues. Judge Barrett
has already gone on record in opposi-
tion to reproductive rights and free-
doms. So it is clear to me that she
would try to roll back the clock on
those rights as a Supreme Court Jus-
tice.
In a 2013 speech she entitled ‘‘Roe at
40,’’ Judge Barrett explained that ‘‘Re-
publicans are heavily invested in get-
ting judges who will overturn Roe.’’
She wrote that the ‘‘framework of Roe
has essentially permitted abortion on
demand, and Roe recognizes no state
interest in the life of a fetus.’’ In a 2003
article, Judge Barrett suggested that
Roe v. Wade was ‘‘an erroneous deci-
sion.’’
Recall that President Trump has al-
ready said he would only nominate jus-
tices who would ‘‘automatically’’ overturn
Roe v. Wade. Judge Barrett appears to have
met this litmus test as well.
Indeed, Judge Barrett may hold an
even more extreme record when it
comes to reproductive rights than I
have already stated. She refused to say
at her confirmation hearing whether
Griswold v. Connecticut was rightly de-
cided, in which the Court held that the
Constitution guarantees a right to
marital privacy and that a law crim-
inalizing the use of contraception vio-
lated that right.
Now, note that Justices Roberts,
Alito, Kagan, and Kavanaugh all dis-
cussed the Griswold case at their con-
firmation hearing. Yet Judge Barrett
said that Griswold’s correctness ‘‘is
something I cannot opine on.’’
Judge Barrett’s views on immigra-
tion also raise concerns. Our most vul-
nerable individuals are at risk as well
with the naming of a new Justice to
the Supreme Court. Let me talk about
one specific group.
On June 18 of this year, in a 5–4 deci-
sion written by Chief Justice Roberts
and joined by Justice Ginsburg, the Su-
preme Court held that the Department
of Homeland Security violated law
when it rescinded the Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrival, or DACA, Pro-
gram.
There are approximately 643,000
DACA recipients—these are our Dream-
ers—in the United States, and approxi-
mately 29,000 are healthcare workers
and essential workers who are serving
us during the COVID–19 pandemic, who
have saved lives and eased suffering.
But for the 5–4 decision, those indi-
viduals’ lives could have been totally
disrupted, and they could have been or-
dered to leave our country. These are
individuals who know no other home
but the United States of America. They
are our neighbors and friends. The next
Justice could very well determine the
fate of the Dreamers.
Unfortunately, Judge Barrett already
has demonstrated a judicial track
record which is hostile to immigration.
In Cook County v. Wolf, Judge Barrett
authored the dissenting opinion from a
ruling that struck down the Trump ad-
ministration’s cruel ‘‘public charge’’
rule. The rule basically penalized im-
migrants for exercising their legal
rights to use benefits that Congress has
made available.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.387 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6563
October 25, 2020
And in the case of Yafai v. Pompeo,
Judge Barrett wrote the majority opin-
ion and held that U.S. consular offi-
cials have virtually unchecked author-
ity to deny visa applications to those
seeking entrance to the United States.
It was pointed out in the minority
opinion that the majority has created a
constant ‘‘dangerous abdication of ju-
dicial responsibility’’ that would lead
immigration officials to deny visas on
the basis of ‘‘impermissible bias.’’
So let me turn to the rights of the
LGBTQ community. In the Obergefell
v. Hodges case joined by Justice Gins-
burg, the Supreme Court held that the
Constitution guarantees same-sex cou-
ples the right to marry, in a 5–4 deci-
sion. Unfortunately, Judge Barrett has
demonstrated hostility to marriage
equality and to LGBTQ rights more
generally. In speeches, Judge Barrett
seemed to be critical of the Supreme
Court’s decisions in Obergefell, indi-
cating that she was worried about the
‘‘who decides’’ question when it comes
to the courts or legislatures deciding
who can marry and start a new family.
But fundamental rights under the
Constitution should not be up for de-
bate. Every American should have the
same rights, benefits, and obligations
of marriage regardless of their gender
or who they love. Notably, Judge Bar-
rett referred to sexual orientation as
‘‘sexual preference’’ in her testimony,
implying that sexual orientation is a
choice instead of an immutable char-
acteristic.
As Justice Kennedy concluded in
Obergefell:
No union is more profound than marriage,
for it embodies the highest ideals of love, fi-
delity, devotion, sacrifice, and family. In
forming a marital union, two people become
something greater than once they were. As
some of the petitioners in these cases dem-
onstrate, marriage embodies a love that may
endure even past death. It would misunder-
stand these men and women to say they dis-
respect the idea of marriage. Their plea is
that they do respect it, respect it so deeply
that they seek to find its fulfillment for
themselves. Their hope is not to be con-
demned to live in loneliness, excluded from
one of civilization’s oldest institutions. They
ask for equal dignity in the eyes of the law.
The Constitution grants them that right.
I would hope that we agree with Jus-
tice Ginsburg, but I am afraid that is a
view that is not shared by Judge Bar-
rett. Judge Barrett was critical, as
well, of the extension of civil rights
laws to protect transgender people,
saying at an event that ‘‘it does seem
to strain the text of the statute to say
that Title IX demands it.’’ However,
the Supreme Court held otherwise in
Bostock v. Clayton County, where Jus-
tice Gorsuch, joined by Justice Gins-
burg, held for the Court in a 6–3 deci-
sion that the prohibition of employ-
ment discrimination on the basis of
‘‘sex’’ should be read to include gender
identity and sexual orientation.
Judge Barrett has issued several dis-
turbing findings that indicate a
cramped and narrowed view of civil
rights laws designated to protect
American workers from discrimination
based on race or age.
In EEOC v. AutoZone, Judge Barrett
voted against rehearing a panel deci-
sion that ruled against an African-
American employee whose company in-
voluntarily transferred him to another
store based on race. The EEOC had
charged that AutoZone had an unlaw-
ful practice of segregating employees
by race when it assigned African-Amer-
ican employees to stores in African-
American neighborhoods and Latino
employees to Latino neighborhoods.
The dissent argued that the court
upheld a ‘‘separate but equal’’ arrange-
ment that is contrary to the Supreme
Court’s decision in Brown v. Board of
Education when the court interpreted
the equal protection clause of the 14th
Amendment to find that separate fa-
cilities can’t really be equal.
The dissent wrote:
This case presents a straightforward ques-
tion under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964: Does a business’s policy of segre-
gating employees and intentionally assign-
ing members of different races to different
stores ‘‘tend to deprive any individual of em-
ployment opportunities’’ on the basis of
race? The panel answered this question ‘‘not
necessarily.’’ I cannot agree with that con-
clusion.
Once again, Judge Barrett was on the
side of denying protection against ra-
cial discrimination.
In Kleber v. Care Fusion Corporation,
Judge Barrett sided with the majority
that the Age Discrimination in Em-
ployment Act only protects current
employees from discrimination due to
disparate impact and not outside job
applicants—a very narrow view.
Then there are Judge Barrett’s views
on gun safety, which I find deeply con-
cerning. Judge Barrett’s record strong-
ly suggests that she would strike down
commonsense gun safety laws, even as
Congress and the States continue to
try to combat gun violence, which kills
nearly 40,000 Americans every year.
According to the Center for Amer-
ican Progress, from 2008 to 2017, over
6,200 people were killed with guns in
Maryland, and from 2014 through 2018,
there were 42 mass shootings in Mary-
land, killing a total of 45 people and in-
juring 156. That is just in one State.
That is just in one State. The next
Supreme Court Justice could hold the
decisive vote should Congress or the
States adopt commonsense gun safety
laws to curb gun violence, such as re-
quiring universal background checks,
banning assault weapons, or banning
high-capacity magazine clips.
In Kanter v. Barr, the Seventh Cir-
cuit held that a law barring felons from
possessing a firearm did not violate the
Second Amendment. The Supreme
Court previously held in the District of
Columbia v. Heller that the Second
Amendment conveyed an individual
right to bear arms, separate from the
right of the militia to do so.
But even Justice Scalia—Judge
Barrett’s mentor and President
Trump’s role model for an ideal Jus-
tice—wrote in his majority opinion for
the Court in Heller that ‘‘nothing in
our opinion should be taken to cast
doubt on longstanding prohibitions on
the possession of firearms by felons.’’
Yet Judge Barrett dissented in Kanter
and concluded that the bar on gun pos-
session should apply only to violent
felons. She argued that the majority
was treating the Second Amendment
like a second-class right. She went on
to note that the government could
deny nonviolent felons the right to
vote but not the right to bear arms be-
cause ‘‘history does show that felons
can be disqualified from exercising cer-
tain rights—like the rights to vote and
serve on juries—because these rights
belonged only to virtuous citizens.’’ So
ultimately Judge Barrett bizarrely
seems to treat voting rights as a sec-
ond-class right compared to gun owner-
ship. That is pretty extreme.
I have always expected that in Amer-
ica, we could move forward in pro-
tecting individual rights under our
Constitution; that in each Congress, in
each session, the Supreme Court would
advance those rights for individual pro-
tection under the Constitution of the
United States. The filling of this Su-
preme Court vacancy could very well
reverse a trend of protecting rights and
deny many in our community their
rights.
The Leadership Conference on Civil
and Human Rights has sent a letter to
the Senate, signed by a diverse group
of 150 organizations, in opposition to
the confirmation of Judge Barrett. The
letter urges the Senate to ‘‘oppose the
confirmation of Judge Barrett and
allow the president duly chosen in the
2020 general election to fill the existing
Supreme Court vacancy.’’
Groups opposing the nomination in-
clude the Alliance for Justice, Human
Rights Campaign, NAACP, NARAL
Pro-Choice Maryland, National Council
of Jewish Women, National Employ-
ment Law Project, National Organiza-
tion for Women, People for the Amer-
ican Way, SEIU, United We Dream, and
the Violence Policy Center. The list
goes on and on.
On October 15, 2020, the Leadership
Conference reiterated its opposition to
the Barrett nomination with a letter
from over 400 State and local officials
asking the Senate not to confirm a new
Justice until after Inauguration Day.
The Leadership Conference ends their
letter by saying: ‘‘It is shameful that,
instead, the U.S. Senate is rushing
through a nominee who is likely to
eviscerate the Affordable Care Act and
deprive millions of people of access to
health care, destroy reproductive free-
dom by gutting Roe v. Wade, and sup-
press our right to vote, making it hard-
er for Americans to have their voices
heard in our democracy.’’
I am gravely concerned that the
rushed and sham process the Senate is
using here will undermine the public’s
faith in the independence and legit-
imacy of the Supreme Court as a fair
and impartial body.
A group of former Federal judges re-
cently wrote to the Senate:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.388 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6564 October 25, 2020
Our citizenry is sharply polarized—a fore-
boding sign for the health of any democracy.
The judicial confirmation process has in-
creasingly become dangerously politicized.
Injecting a Supreme Court confirmation
fight into this noxious mix will ultimately
change and diminish the public’s faith in
this vital institution.
Public opinion polling does indeed
show that a supermajority of Ameri-
cans want the winner of the upcoming
election to fill the current Supreme
Court vacancy.
I again reference the Leadership Con-
ference letter opposing Judge Barrett,
which states ‘‘Judge Barrett’s extreme
record on the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit, along with her
ideologically driven writings and
speeches, demonstrate that she is in-
capable of rendering equal justice
under the law.’’
After reviewing Judge Barrett’s full
record, statements, and committee tes-
timony, I am not convinced that Judge
Barrett would administer impartial
justice and guarantee equal protection
of the law and equal justice of the law;
so therefore I must vote against her
nomination. She is certainly not a
mainstream jurist.
Let’s follow the McConnell rule and
let the American people pick the next
President and Senate so that they can
weigh in on the decision, just as Sen-
ator MCCONNELL argued in 2016 with
President Obama’s nominee of Merrick
Garland for Justice Scalia’s seat. Let
the Senate honor Justice Ginsburg’s
legacy by continuing to fight for the
rights she fought for her entire career,
both as litigator, circuit judge, and fi-
nally as a Supreme Court Justice. Let’s
honor Justice Ginsburg’s dying words:
‘‘My most fervent wish is that I will
not be replaced until a new president is
installed.’’
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, every-
thing that has happened since the un-
timely passing of the legendary Justice
Ginsburg is a clear reminder that much
of what goes on in Washington, DC, is
simply not on the level.
Right now, our country is hurting—
mass death, mass unemployment, mass
hunger, and suffering among children.
The two sides in Congress ought to be
addressing those challenges together.
Now more than ever, while so many
are so fearful about tomorrow, the
rules the Senate goes by and the agree-
ments the Senate makes need to stand
for something. That is how I felt when
I negotiated for the $600-per-week un-
employment insurance boost in March.
The Treasury Secretary for the Re-
publicans agreed to it, but then, at the
last minute, Republican Senators pre-
tended otherwise and tried to vote it
out of the bill. Think about that. There
was an agreement between both sides,
and the one thing that Senate Repub-
licans wanted to do was to break the
agreement and keep workers from get-
ting that extra money to pay the rent
and the food bill at a time when they
had been laid off through no fault of
their own.
Another example is unfolding right
before our eyes. Until a few weeks ago,
Leader MCCONNELL and Chairman GRA-
HAM would have told you it was essen-
tially the 11th commandment, carved
in stone: No election-year Supreme
Court appointments. Again, Repub-
licans went back on their word.
If the cure to COVID–19 was partisan-
ship and rule-breaking, then Senate
Republicans might be onto something
with their low stunt on the high Court,
but it is not.
The American people have a much
more sensitive radar for unfairness
than Senate Republicans. When I was
home during the 2-week period here re-
cently, I went to counties that Donald
Trump won decisively and counties
that Hillary Clinton won in 2016. Folks
I talked to in both communities, in
both areas, said the person who wins
the 2020 election should be the one who
chooses the Court nominee. In this
case, the American people know what
is at stake for them because they see
the consequences of rule-breaking.
If Judge Barrett is confirmed and
does what Donald Trump has repeat-
edly said he requires of a nominee—
help him throw out the Affordable Care
Act—here is what will happen: Tens of
millions of Americans will suddenly
lose their healthcare during a pan-
demic. COVID–19 will become a pre-
existing condition used by insurance
companies to once again discriminate
against consumers. It will take Amer-
ica back to the days when healthcare
was for the healthy and wealthy.
Even the nominee herself shows this
process on judicial nominees is so dys-
functional and so broken, it doesn’t
come close to being on the level. Amy
Coney Barrett may have established
herself as the Babe Ruth of saying
pretty much nothing.
Now, everybody understands that
nominees typically clam up during
these hearings. I don’t expect Judge
Barrett to disavow Trump healthcare
policy. I wouldn’t expect to agree with
all of a Trump nominee’s positions. But
unfortunately for our country, this
hearing was a new low.
For example, one of my colleagues
asked whether Judge Barrett was
aware that the President had com-
mitted to nominating judges who
would throw out the Affordable Care
Act—a statement that was part of news
accounts all across the country again
and again and again and again.
Back in 2015, Donald Trump said: ‘‘If
I win the presidency, my judicial ap-
pointments will do the right thing, un-
like Bush’s appointee John Roberts on
ObamaCare.’’
The day after Judge Barrett’s nomi-
nation, Donald Trump tweeted:
‘‘ObamaCare will be replaced with a
much better and far cheaper alter-
native, if it is terminated in the Su-
preme Court.’’
But Judge Barrett answered, when
my colleague asked about whether she
had heard about anything resembling
Donald Trump’s views on this, she said:
‘‘I don’t recall hearing about or seeing
such statements . . . that wasn’t some-
thing that I heard or saw directly by
reading it myself.’’ She also said she
couldn’t recall whether Senators
brought it up during their conversa-
tions with her.
I say to the Senate today, does any-
body think that was an authentic an-
swer? Everybody who occasionally
looks at the news knows that Donald
Trump wants to tear down the Afford-
able Care Act. He famously promised
the far right that his judges would take
all the far-right positions. He routinely
attacks Republican-appointed Justices
for opinions he dislikes.
The ‘‘never heard it, never saw it’’
argument advanced by Judge Barrett,
that she doesn’t follow the news, ap-
parently, at all; didn’t talk with any-
body about the healthcare debate that
has been front and center in American
politics for a long, long time, is hard to
mesh. I understate this with reality.
You don’t reach the heights of the aca-
demic and legal profession by ignoring
the news of the day for years and years
and years on end.
If you watch Judge Barrett’s hearing,
it is clear what this ‘‘never heard it,
never saw it’’ argument is all about. It
is about denying that there is any real
threat to the Affordable Care Act to
protections for preexisting conditions,
to cheaper medicines for seniors.
Judge Barrett certainly put on a hall
of fame performance in ducking and
dodging and weaving her way out of
even the simple routine questions
about existing law, stuff that is guar-
anteed to come up in every nomination
hearing.
For example—this one just stunned
me when I heard it. She wouldn’t say
whether Griswold v. Connecticut was
decided correctly. That was the land-
mark 1960s case that affirmed the right
of married women to have access to
contraception. It is one of the key Su-
preme Court decisions that gets di-
rectly to the right of privacy and to
the rights of women to make decisions
about their own bodies and their own
lives. The decision in Roe v. Wade fol-
lows directly from the decision in Gris-
wold.
Even Justices Thomas, Roberts,
Alito, and Kavanaugh—not exactly the
leftwing of the American judicial sys-
tems—said Griswold was decided cor-
rectly. Judge Barrett refused. That
matters because there is a far-right
campaign working to undo both of
those decisions, which would be dev-
astating to a woman’s fundamental
freedoms in our country.
She dodged serious questions on the
legality of in vitro fertilization, which
has helped millions of parents achieve
their one dream: having a family.
She refused to say whether she be-
lieves the landmark decision on mar-
riage equality was decided correctly.
The one case she was asked about en-
shrined marriage equality.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.389 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6565
October 25, 2020
She dodged a question on whether
U.S. Presidents should even commit to
a peaceful transfer of power. She went
on to say on the issue of voter intimi-
dation that she wouldn’t answer wheth-
er it was illegal. That is not an open
question. It is a case of black-letter
law.
She was given what I thought was a
slam-dunk opportunity to confirm that
a President cannot unilaterally change
the date of the election. That one is
not open to interpretation. The law is
clear that he cannot. Judge Barrett
wouldn’t say so.
It is not like this nominee has been
shy about sharing her views. For exam-
ple, she bashed the opinion by Chief
Justice Roberts that upheld the Afford-
able Care Act. She said it ‘‘pushed the
Affordable Care Act beyond its plau-
sible meaning to save the statute.’’
That decision is the reason that 130
million Americans with preexisting
conditions are protected today, why in-
surance companies can’t impose caps
on people who need costly healthcare,
why seniors no longer get stuck in the
prescription drug doughnut hole bank-
rupting their savings.
Judge Barrett put her name on a let-
ter that talked about overturning Roe
v. Wade because of what it called its
‘‘barbaric legacy.’’ She also lectured on
the subject. She failed to disclose the
letter and some of her lectures in her
disclosure to the Judiciary Committee.
Again, I understand that nominees
are always careful in these hearings,
but nomination hearings are providing
less and less substance. That has been
the case for a long time. Over the last
few weeks, Judge Barrett set a new
low. Years ago, Chief Justice Roberts
talked about the job of the Supreme
Court Justice and said it was about
‘‘calling balls and strikes.’’ My ques-
tion is, How can you be trusted to call
‘‘balls and strikes’’ if you spend your
nomination hearing playing ‘‘hide the
ball?’’
This rush job doesn’t qualify as ad-
vice and consent. In my view, you look
at Donald Trump and Republicans
rushing this confirmation, you look at
all the ducking and dodging of basic
questions, and it is not hard to see the
politics behind it. At a moment when
there are millions of Americans across
the country wondering how they are
going to pay their rent, how they are
going to afford medicine, whether they
are going to be able to safely hug their
elderly parents again, Senate Repub-
licans are laser-focused on locking in
political power over the courts. That is
what this is all about.
Senate Republicans somehow think
this is a Houdini act, suddenly making
the threat of the Affordable Care Act
disappear. It is not working. My view is
the American people understand that
the rush to fill the Ginsburg seat is
about a lot more than healthcare.
Republican nominees for the Court
always come before the Senate and
talk about how it is the text of the
laws as written, respecting precedent,
respecting the original meaning of the
Constitution. What happens when they
join the Bench? They throw out long-
standing precedents, restrict individual
rights, push forward with an agenda
that favors special interests and the
powerful.
For example, Judge Barrett gutted a
consumer protection law from the
bench by essentially ignoring the text
of the law itself, making it easier for
debt collectors to prey on the vulner-
able.
Judge Barrett threw out precedent to
deny $332 in damages to a woman who
was injured in a medical procedure.
The woman was actually unable to af-
ford a lawyer, and she mistakenly used
the wrong word to describe the money
she was owed. Judge Barrett used that
mistake against her.
She ignored another existing prece-
dent, taking away a jury award from a
teenager who was repeatedly raped by
a prison guard.
She sided with a company that seg-
regated employees by race.
In another case, she came up with a
twisted interpretation of the Age Dis-
crimination in Employment Act to
allow discrimination against older job
applicants. None of that had anything
to do with ‘‘calling balls and strikes’’
or respecting the laws as written.
Those rulings favor the powerful and
corporations over people who don’t
have clout and don’t have vast sums of
money to protect themselves.
The President and Senate Repub-
licans have packed the courts from the
top on down with far-right judges who
excuse these kinds of ideological rul-
ings. They blocked Democratic judicial
nominees for years. They had a plan to
remove seats from the DC court rather
than considering the sitting Demo-
cratic President’s nominees.
Now, this President has pushed
through an immense number of nomi-
nees, given how many seats Repub-
licans left open through obstruction.
Some of these judges have been deemed
not competent for the job by non-
partisan legal groups. It has done in-
credible damage to the legitimacy and
the independence of the judiciary. Vir-
tually all of them tell the same story
about originalism and sticking to the
text in the tradition of Justice Scalia.
Justice Scalia is considered to be the
ultimate example of what is considered
originalism. Judge Barrett recently
said ‘‘his judicial philosophy is mine,
too.’’ Judge Scalia, in fact, packed his
opinions with ideology. He wrote that
the decision granting same-sex couples
the right to marry was a ‘‘threat to
American democracy,’’ that ‘‘robs the
People of . . . the freedom to govern
themselves.’’ He wanted to throw out
the Affordable Care Act. He helped gut
the Voting Rights Act in a ruling that
led to massive voter disenfranchise-
ment.
What is behind all this talk about
originalism and sticking to the text of
the laws as written is a political agen-
da, plain and simple, taking away peo-
ple’s healthcare, disenfranchising vot-
ers and entrenching minority rule, giv-
ing corporations more power over their
employees, legalizing discrimination
against the LGBTQ community and
against Black, Hispanic, Asian, and
other groups of Americans. It is about
cementing government control over
women’s bodies. Republicans could
never enact these deeply unpopular
policies through legislation, so they
want the Supreme Court to enact their
agenda for them.
I want to close by way of saying that
all of this is contrary to what Justice
Ginsburg spent her career fighting for.
It is exactly what the big rush to fill
the Ginsburg seat is all about and how
this process torpedoes any opportunity
for the Senate to come together on
other big issues.
My Democratic colleagues and I have
been pleading with the majority, essen-
tially going and saying, Look, let’s
work together on a major COVID pack-
age—virtually pleading that we work
in a bipartisan way to help people on
what I have heard again and again at
home is their No. 1 concern. MITCH
MCCONNELL said, however, that it was
too complicated to get done.
Last week, I brought forward a bill
on enhanced unemployment insurance,
a lifeline for jobless workers. It was
blocked. Two days ago, Democrats
brought forth a series of bills, includ-
ing proposals addressing domestic vio-
lence, election security, and
childcare—all blocked. This nomina-
tion to Senate Republicans comes first,
and absolutely everything else is on
hold, has to wait. We see, really, no
genuine interest to do the hard work of
putting it together.
This nomination and this process are
not on the level. Republicans are,
again, breaking their word to hand the
Supreme Court to the far right. I know
that because I have heard from so
many Oregonians about it, Oregonians
who are worried about losing their
healthcare, their vote, and so many of
their fundamental freedoms. They are
worried about what this means for the
future of the country.
This debate is about the Ginsburg
seat. Justice Ginsburg was not just an
iconic fighter for the rights of the pow-
erless and the vulnerable. She always
said what she meant, and she meant
what she said. We did not get that from
Judge Barrett.
I oppose this nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today in opposition
to the nomination of Judge Amy Coney
Barrett to the Supreme Court. I am
truly disappointed that my Republican
colleagues have chosen to ram through
this partisan nominee in the middle of
a pandemic when an election is under-
way and tens of millions of Americans
have already cast their ballots.
The Senate should be focused on a bi-
partisan COVID–19 relief package to
help Granite Staters and Americans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.391 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6566 October 25, 2020
across this country who are struggling
to pay the bills and put food on the
table during this pandemic. Instead,
Leader MCCONNELL’s only priority has
been to push through a nominee who
will fundamentally alter the balance of
the Court and affect the lives of gen-
erations of Americans, all just days be-
fore ballots will be counted to decide
the next President of the United States
and the makeup of this very body. The
stakes in this nomination could not be
higher.
I want to read an excerpt from an
email I received from a constituent.
This is from Dave in Portsmouth, NH.
Dave writes:
What is at stake with the Supreme Court
nomination . . . among the topics that have
stricken the deepest sadness, pain, and fear
in eyes, minds and hearts are the goals of
this administration to dismantle . . . the Af-
fordable Care Act . . . A woman’s right (and
only her right) to make decisions about her
body and her life . . . and the rights of the
LGBTQ community.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent for the full text of this email to be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
HELLO SENATOR SHAHEEN,
These past months I have looked into the
eyes of many of my friends and family and
have seen extreme sadness, pain and fear. To
enumerate the many causes would be redun-
dant . . . but with express concern is what is
at stake with this Supreme Court nomina-
tion. Among the topics that have stricken
the deepest sadness, pain and fear in eyes,
minds and hearts are the goals of this admin-
istration to dismantle . . . The Affordable
Care Act . . . A woman’s right (and only her
right) to make decisions about her body and
her life . . . and the rights of the LGBTQ
community.
Before you cast your vote for this nominee,
try to distinguish between her legal pedigree
and her crystal clear biases for which she has
often been on record. Her evasiveness during
questioning before the Judiciary Committee
played perfectly into her chosen role of po-
litical pawn of the Trump administration.
This Supreme Court . . . my Supreme Court
. . . your Supreme Court . . . The Supreme
Court of the United States of America must
remain untainted from the rampant political
posturing of this 2020 election cycle.
What will be your legacy? In recent days
some of the GOP members of the Senate
have . . . through short public statements
. . . been trying to distance themselves from
Donald Trump. With this vote . . . you have
the power to actually do it. To turn away
from hypocrisy and years of blatant lack of
integrity. You owe it to America, to your-
self, to your family, to my family . . . to
take a moment to look at the sadness, pain
and fear in the eyes of America today.
And yes . . . I am speaking to you all . . .
including some who have tried to push
through this quagmire with an eye toward
how the world and history will judge us all
. . . including you Sen. Romney . . . and yes
. . . you Sen. Sasse . . . and Senators . . .
Collins, Murkowski, Gardner, McSally, Fish-
er and so on. I am pleading with you . . . im-
ploring you to do the right and just thing
and vote NO on this confirmation.
You know what is right. You will know it
when . . . as I have . . . you look in the eyes
of good and decent Americans . . . who are
desperate for real leadership . . . and you see
the sadness, pain and fear that has been
sowed by this administration and which con-
tinues to be sown with this confirmation
process. It has been a rushed, politically mo-
tivated and politically charged Supreme
Court nomination being transacted while the
American people are voting RIGHT NOW to
steer the course of this country . . . this
Senate chamber . . . and this country’s high-
est court.
Step up and do what is right.
Thank you,
DAVID J CUMMINS,
Portsmouth, NH.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. The President and
his allies here on Capitol Hill are try-
ing to tear down the healthcare law
that has helped provide millions of
Americans with coverage in the middle
of the greatest public health crisis in a
century. They pressed forward with
this reckless attempt, even though
they don’t have a plan for what to do
when as many as 23 million Ameri-
cans—and in New Hampshire, more
than 100,000 Granite Staters—would
lose their healthcare coverage.
I want to repeat that.
This administration and congres-
sional Republicans have no plan for
what to do if millions of Americans
lose their healthcare coverage if the
Affordable Care Act is overturned.
For the last 6 years, we have seen
congressional Republicans try to repeal
the ACA numerous times, and they
have failed every time because the
American people have raised their
voices and made it clear that they
want to keep the Affordable Care Act
and strengthen it, not repeal it. Now
we are seeing the administration and
congressional Republicans try to do in
the courts what they were not able to
get done in Congress—to overturn the
Affordable Care Act.
We have also seen with Judge Barrett
that she has made her feelings very
clear about the ACA. She disagreed
with decisions to uphold the ACA the
last two times it went before the Su-
preme Court, and she wouldn’t answer
questions about the healthcare law
during her confirmation hearing.
Striking down the ACA would deal a
crushing blow to our most vulnerable
populations during this pandemic. If
the Court strikes down the Affordable
Care Act in its entirety, Granite
Staters and Americans across the
country will lose access to Medicaid
expansion. Medicaid expansion is a
critical source of coverage for millions
of Americans and, in New Hampshire,
for thousands of Granite Staters who
have lost their jobs during this pan-
demic. In fact, since the start of this
pandemic, what we have seen is that
enrollment in Medicaid expansion in
New Hampshire has increased by more
than 11,000 enrollees as we have seen
job losses mount.
For these individuals and all of the
more than 60,000 Granite Staters who
are covered through Medicaid expan-
sion, the loss of the ACA in the Su-
preme Court—the Supreme Court’s
overturning the ACA—would eliminate
a critical lifeline for coverage during
this public health crisis. In New Hamp-
shire, if we lose Medicaid expansion, we
will also lose our most important tool
for combating the opioid epidemic.
Without the ACA, we will go back to
a time when insurance companies had
sweeping power to undercut coverage.
They will be allowed to charge women
higher premiums than men for the
same coverage. The health insurers
will be able to remove essential health
benefits like prescription drugs or ma-
ternity care. They will also be allowed
to jack up premiums or deny coverage
altogether for individuals with pre-
existing conditions.
More than 8 million Americans, in-
cluding nearly 10,000 Granite Staters,
could be denied coverage because they
have previously contracted COVID–19,
which could now count as a preexisting
condition, and without the ACA, sen-
iors could, once again, find themselves
stuck in Medicare’s doughnut hole for
prescription drug coverage at a time
when we are seeing drug prices soar.
In her confirmation hearing, Judge
Barrett even refused to say whether
the Medicare Program was constitu-
tional. With Judge Barrett on the Su-
preme Court, the health coverage that
the ACA, Medicare, and other Federal
programs provide will be under a con-
stant threat.
Sadly, women’s reproductive rights
are also on the line with Judge
Barrett’s nomination. When he ran for
President in 2016, Donald Trump said
that he would appoint judges who
would overturn Roe v. Wade. Well, we
are seeing that very clearly with Judge
Barrett’s record. It shows that Presi-
dent Trump is trying to do just that—
overturn Roe v. Wade.
Amy Coney Barrett’s dissenting opin-
ions, while serving on the Seventh Cir-
cuit, show that she is comfortable with
laws that make it difficult or nearly
impossible for a woman to exercise her
right to make her own reproductive
health decisions. Judge Barrett has
even publicly supported an organiza-
tion that is opposed to in vitro fer-
tilization, which is a procedure that
has helped millions of American cou-
ples start families.
Almost 50 years of precedent of up-
holding a woman’s right to control her
own body are in jeopardy because the
Republicans are playing politics with
the Supreme Court and packing the
Court with extreme Justices.
There are nearly 20 abortion-related
cases that are currently one step away
from reaching the Supreme Court. A
partisan Court would likely disregard
longstanding precedent in these cases
and put a woman’s health and well-
being at risk. Let’s be very clear: Re-
pealing Roe v. Wade is not going to re-
duce the number of abortions. If his-
tory is any indication, what it will do
is increase the number of abortions in
the country.
Unfortunately, the Affordable Care
Act and women’s reproductive rights
are just two of the many areas of
American life that a partisan Supreme
Court could dramatically alter.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.392 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6567
October 25, 2020
Equality for LGBTQ Americans is an-
other major concern. Millions of gay
and lesbian Americans have been mar-
ried since the Supreme Court legalized
same-sex marriage, but in a recent dis-
sent penned by Justices Thomas and
Alito, these Justices challenged the
constitutionality of that decision and
called for it to be revisited. When
asked in her confirmation hearing
about the precedent of the Supreme
Court decision to legalize same-sex
marriage, Judge Barrett was evasive.
So you can understand the anxiety and
fear that same-sex families are experi-
encing as they watch the Republican-
led Senate rush this nomination.
The stakes are also incredibly high
for voting rights, for worker protec-
tions, for commonsense gun laws, and
for so many other issues that are in
jeopardy with the appointment of
Judge Barrett.
Now, I know the die has been cast.
We saw that yesterday with the 51-to-48
cloture vote, but I believe this effort to
politicize the Supreme Court is a deci-
sion that those who care about our
democratic institutions will come to
regret for many decades to come. If to-
day’s vote is the same as yesterday’s—
51 to 48—this will be the closest vote
for a Supreme Court Justice in our Na-
tion’s entire history. We should not be
doing this today. We should be focusing
on what the American public is most
concerned about—help with the
coronavirus.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The Senator from Nevada.
Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I rise be-
cause the healthcare of millions of Ne-
vadans and tens of millions of Ameri-
cans is in danger. Their healthcare is
in danger because, in just a few weeks,
the Supreme Court will consider a case
that could overturn the Affordable
Care Act completely. This means that
the next Supreme Court Justice will
decide whether individuals with pre-
existing conditions could, once again,
be denied healthcare coverage.
The fact is, this administration has
tried for years to overturn the Afford-
able Care Act. First, it attempted to
repeal the ACA through legislation. It
failed repeatedly because Congress and
the American people do not support its
schemes to take away our healthcare.
Then it changed its strategy and is try-
ing to use the Court to dismantle our
Nation’s healthcare system.
Now, with an election just 1 week
away, the Senate Republicans are
scrambling to confirm a new Supreme
Court Justice in order to tip the bal-
ance of the Court in favor of their law-
suit that aims to destroy the Afford-
able Care Act. Rather than waiting for
the outcome of the election, which is
already underway, and follow the
precedent that they themselves estab-
lished in 2016, the McConnell rule, my
Republican colleagues are rushing to
put Judge Amy Coney Barrett on the
Bench.
Not only does Judge Barrett support
the President’s position on dismantling
our Nation’s healthcare law, but, if
confirmed, she could very well be the
deciding vote to undo the Affordable
Care Act and take healthcare away
from millions of Americans. Judge
Barrett’s hostility toward the Afford-
able Care Act is on the record, and we
have seen a long and extensive paper
trail outlining her opposition to the
ACA. Her past comments, well, they
paint a bleak picture of what the Af-
fordable Care Act’s future would look
like with a Justice Barrett on the
Bench.
To put it simply, this administra-
tion’s attempt to use the Court to take
away Americans’ health insurance and
raise the cost of care, especially at this
moment—during a global pandemic—is
not only cruel and reckless, it is dead-
ly.
I have met many Nevada families,
and I have heard stories from men,
women, and children whose lives would
be just devastated without the Afford-
able Care Act: cancer survivors, people
with diabetes, asthma, cystic fibrosis,
and countless other preexisting condi-
tions that affect families. These are
real Nevadans whose healthcare would
be jeopardized if the ACA were no
longer the law of the land.
I always tell my constituents that I
carry their stories with me to Wash-
ington. They inform the actions that I
take and the decisions that I make. I
want to take some time to share some
of the stories that I have heard—sto-
ries from Nevadans whose lives have
been saved and who enjoy the quality
of life because of the Affordable Care
Act; stories from Nevadans who are
outraged about what is happening and
have reached out to my office to make
their voices heard; and countless sto-
ries of how allowing the ACA to be dis-
mantled would impact their lives.
First, I want to share a letter from
Jen, who lives in Henderson, NV. Jen’s
husband is one of the 1.2 million Nevad-
ans who is estimated to be living with
a preexisting condition. Like many
people, Jen is worried about the health
of her husband and the future of her
family if the Affordable Care Act is
eliminated.
Here is what Jen wrote:
Dear Senator Rosen, I am watching the
confirmation hearing for Amy Coney Bar-
rett, and listening to the conversation
around the ACA. I’m scared to death that it
will be overturned, and what that means for
me and my husband. In February 2019, at
only 38, he had a devastating stroke, and had
to stay in the hospital for four months. If he
hadn’t had insurance, we would never have
been able to afford his care. I’m scared of los-
ing that protection from pre-existing condi-
tions. He will need specialists for the rest of
his life, as well as physical, occupational,
and speech therapy. We cannot afford his
care otherwise. I am so scared. Please help.
Unfortunately, Jen’s situation and
concerns are far too common. Many
Nevadans and Americans across our
country are worried about a future
where they could lose their lifesaving
coverage.
Here is another letter from a Ne-
vadan who lives in Spring Creek who is
worried about his own continued
healthcare without the protections the
ACA provides:
I have had asthma my whole life and it’s
severe. I finally have good insurance and
need it desperately. This will affect millions
of us. I have lived through not having insur-
ance and it almost killed me. The insurance
companies at that time were asking for pre-
miums higher than what I made.
Nevadans across the State are abso-
lutely terrified about the possibility of
losing care because of this nomination.
I received a letter from a brave Ne-
vadan who lives in Minden, which is a
small town in the western part of our
State. She wanted to share with me her
health struggles and her fears for the
future. She said this:
I have been fighting a rare, aggressive form
of breast cancer for the past 4 years and still
have numerous surgeries to undergo as part
of my ongoing battle against this dev-
astating disease. I worry about how the loss
of the preexisting conditions protection
would adversely affect my treatment plan,
my everyday financial security, and my abil-
ity to get health insurance in the future
should I lose what I currently have.
The Affordable Care Act has opened
the door to healthcare for Nevadans all
over my State, in communities big and
small. These are real people with real
struggles and real families who des-
perately want the best possible care for
their loved ones. That is all. They want
the best care for their loved ones.
Don’t we all want that?
What is at stake here is life or death
for far too many Nevadans and too
many Americans across this country.
Assuring the health of our loved ones
should be an essential, basic, human
right.
It is thanks to the Affordable Care
Act that more than 200,000 Nevadans
get coverage through the ACA’s ex-
panded Medicaid Program. It is thanks
to the Affordable Care Act that over
77,000 Nevadans have coverage through
the Nevada Health Link insurance ex-
change, and it is thanks to the Afford-
able Care Act that over 19,000 Nevadans
under the age of 26 get to remain cov-
ered through their parents’ health in-
surance plans.
All of these people—that is 1 in 10 Ne-
vadans—could lose their health insur-
ance if the Supreme Court overturns
the ACA.
All of them could face overwhelming
costs and denials of the care they both
need and deserve.
Not to mention, it is thanks to the
ACA that there are an untold number
of people who can still get coverage be-
cause insurance companies can no
longer put lifetime caps on their
healthcare coverage. Before the ACA,
an insurance company could limit how
much they would pay for your medical
bills over your lifetime.
One constituent from Las Vegas
voiced her concerns that without ACA
protections, we would see a return of
lifetime caps on coverage.
She said this:
I am concerned about the potential elimi-
nation of the Affordable Care Act. In addi-
tion to the potential elimination of pre-
existing conditions, no one seems to address
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.394 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6568 October 25, 2020
the issue of lifetime limits, which were
eliminated under the ACA.
For those with long-term illnesses, they
stand to risk loss of medical insurance while
battling catastrophic illnesses.
My husband has been battling colon cancer
for several years. If the lifetime limit were
to be reinstated, we would no longer be cov-
ered for any of his chemo or other cancer-re-
lated treatments.
I am sure that the insurance companies
would jump at the chance to stop coverage
for those with extraordinarily high medical
expenses.
The American people? Well, they
want us to protect their care. The
American people want us to protect
them. They do not want to see the Af-
fordable Care Act eliminated.
The fact is, our healthcare coverage
is better now than it was before the
ACA was enacted. Insurance plans now
have to cover those 10 essential health
benefits, and we have fought hard
against junk plans that claim to pro-
vide coverage but aren’t there when
you need them the most.
In addition to that, many middle-in-
come Nevadans can access affordable
care because of the much needed tax
credits that the ACA provides.
I have spoken with and heard from
countless Nevadans, and I can say with
certainty that no issue matters more
to people of my State than their health
and safety and the health of their loved
ones.
The Affordable Care Act has not only
given families the peace of mind that
comes with quality health coverage,
but it has literally saved lives.
Without the critical protections the
ACA provides, we risk going back to
the days when big insurance companies
could deny insurance coverage based on
preexisting conditions. Repealing the
Affordable Care Act would have dire
consequences for hard-working Nevada
families and families across our coun-
try.
Healthcare shouldn’t be a partisan
issue. We have an obligation to protect
the health of our constituents. We need
access to healthcare more now than
ever, and taking critical protections
away from Nevadans would be a dis-
aster for our State, and it would be a
disaster for our country.
I heard from another constituent,
Carol, who lives in Pahrump, who high-
lighted the risk of this nomination dur-
ing the current challenges our Nation
faces due to the pandemic.
Carol wrote to me, saying this:
Our country is in a public health crisis
right now, one that gets worse by the day.
In this moment, we need our legislators to
protect our families, to provide relief and
support, to do the job we elected them to do.
We do not need to rush through the nomi-
nation of a Supreme Court Justice who is on
the record as hostile to the law that provides
our healthcare protections.
Well, Carol is right to point out that
we are in the middle of a catastrophic
pandemic that has left more than
225,000 Americans dead. Not only that,
but this pandemic could put millions of
Americans at risk of being denied cov-
erage because of a new preexisting con-
dition—COVID–19. Just imagine being
someone who suffered through even a
mild case of COVID–19, only to have
their coverage taken away because of
this new preexisting condition.
Just this week, we are seeing the
highest positivity rates across the
country we have seen thus far. Instead
of developing a clear, national strategy
for combating the coronavirus or
crafting comprehensive legislation to
assist Americans in need of a lifeline
during this difficult time, this adminis-
tration and Senator MCCONNELL seem
to be preoccupied with rushing through
a Supreme Court nominee who is out-
wardly hostile to the Affordable Care
Act.
Since coming to Congress, I have
made it my mission not only to pre-
serve the Affordable Care Act but to
expand care for all Americans. I have
worked to increase access, lower costs,
and improve quality of care. In fact,
one of my first actions as a Senator
was to join my colleague Senator JOE
MANCHIN in introducing legislation to
demand that the Senate intervene to
defend the Affordable Care Act in
court.
Instead of joining me and my col-
leagues and working to protect Ameri-
cans’ health, this administration is too
busy playing politics with people’s
lives and is singularly focused on tak-
ing away your care, my care, our care.
Our healthcare is at stake. Our lives
are at stake.
Before the Senate confirms a lifetime
appointment to our Nation’s highest
court, the American people’s vote
should be counted and their voices
should be heard. This is how the Amer-
ican people feel.
A constituent who lives in Reno
wrote to me saying that ‘‘President
Trump has promised to appoint jus-
tices who will overturn Roe v. Wade
and undermine access to healthcare—
certainly not what I want. And not
what the majority of your constituents
want.’’
He continues:
The election is already underway and we
should be given the power to decide which
President nominates someone for this seat.
The Senate should be focused on addressing
the COVID–19 crisis, not fast-tracking a Su-
preme Court nominee.
We are only 9 days away from an
election, but let’s be clear. The elec-
tion has already started, and millions
of Americans all across our country
have already cast their ballot. They
have mailed in their ballots, and early
voting is happening in many places as
we speak, including my home State of
Nevada.
We should allow the American people
to have their say at the ballot box be-
fore the Senate considers a lifetime ap-
pointment to the Supreme Court—one
that will determine the future of access
to quality, affordable healthcare in the
United States for everyone.
I am sure that other Senators—well,
they are hearing the same stories from
their constituents like the ones I have
shared today, and I truly hope that my
colleagues really listen to them; that
they really hear the pain, the anguish,
and the anxiety that so many Ameri-
cans are feeling right here in this mo-
ment. Their lives, their healthcare—
they are going to be directly impacted
by our decisions.
I will not support the nomination of
a Supreme Court Justice who does not
support the Affordable Care Act. I will
vote against Judge Barrett’s nomina-
tion.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, for
the past several years, I have heard
some pretty remarkable stories from
the other side of the aisle and from the
national media.
We heard from an Atlantic article
that the President called servicemem-
bers killed in action ‘‘losers.’’ It was
spread all over the place until it was
refuted flatly by 14 different officials
who were on the trip.
We heard claims that the Trump ad-
ministration has deployed Federal
troops to Portland, and they were tak-
ing over the streets of Portland, until
leadership of ICE and of DHS came to
Congress and reported what actually
happened, starting with, there were no
Federal troops that went. There was
Federal law enforcement there, but it
is because it is a Federal building that
was under attack. And they weren’t
just aimlessly roaming the streets ar-
resting people, although they did ar-
rest the people who threw Molotov
cocktails at the building.
I have heard that the post office can-
not handle the increased volume of
mail, and the Trump administration is
intentionally trying to slow down the
post office so mail can’t come in, say-
ing with frantic, breathless voices: It
could be 100 million ballots coming in
the mail. Can the post office handle it?
Until you find out that 2 weeks before
Christmas last year, the post office
handled 2.5 billion pieces of first class
mail just that 1 week—certainly they
can handle 100 million ballots coming
in over a month.
I heard last summer that the Presi-
dent had taken away toothbrushes
from children at the border—until a
group of us were actually at the border
the very next week and went into that
exact facility saying there are no
toothbrushes there available for the
children and saw a storeroom full of
toiletries—yes, including toothbrushes.
I read the story and followed up with
the ICE leadership about Muslims in
our ICE detention facilities being
forced to eat pork—tormenting them
by feeding them pork, against their
faith—until we actually followed up on
the facts of it and found that story was
completely false.
It seems every day—sometimes mul-
tiple times a day—there is a new accu-
sation that comes out to attack the
Trump administration and to challenge
them on every angle of every direction
you can possibly do it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.396 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6569
October 25, 2020
And then for the Presiding Officer—
you know this full well because I sat in
that same chair for 2 hours last night
during our 30 hours of continuous de-
bate, following Senate rules to con-
clude a confirmation of a Supreme
Court Justice, and I was quite amazed
at some of the things I heard while I
sat in the chair.
I heard things like, well, Amy Coney
Barrett should have never even come
out of the Judiciary because Demo-
crats boycotted coming, actually, to
the hearing. If they don’t come to the
hearing, the nominee cannot come out;
the Republicans have broken the rules.
In fact, some of my colleagues went
dangerously close to say: Because they
broke that rule, we are going to break
the next rule and pack the Court. Ex-
cept they leave out one little thing:
That has happened multiple times be-
fore. They did follow the rules. There
wasn’t a breaking of the rule in the
committee. In fact, one of the Members
speaking last night even said so far as,
they broke the rules, except the Parlia-
mentarian ruled them in order. And so
the Parliamentarian was wrong as
well.
At least seven times since 2006—most
recently in 2014 when Democratic
Chairman LEAHY sent a circuit court
judge and two district judges to the
floor, out of committee, when only one
member of the minority was present—
not fulfilling ‘‘the rule.’’
Republicans did not break the rule as
they came out of committee with Amy
Coney Barrett.
I heard over and over again that
there has never been a time like this
that anyone has brought a Supreme
Court nominee during an election year
like this—except when you actually go
back and look at the history, which I
have recounted on this floor before,
and multiple of my colleagues have re-
counted the actual history. But then
last night I heard once again: Even
Abraham Lincoln, the month before
the election, could have put in a nomi-
nee for the Supreme Court, and he
chose not to, to wait for the election.
All I could do was sit with my mask-
covered face in the presiding chair and
smile and think about the Washington
Post article that came out just a few
weeks ago when Senator HARRIS gave
the same lesson about Abraham Lin-
coln and the Supreme Court. The
Washington Post, the day after, wrote
an article titled ‘‘KAMALA HARRIS’s ‘lit-
tle history lesson’ about Lincoln’s Su-
preme Court vacancy wasn’t exactly
true.’’
No, Abraham Lincoln didn’t hold
back and say: I will wait until after the
election. That is not how that oc-
curred. The Senate was not even in ses-
sion during that time period. And
Abraham Lincoln, in the middle of the
Civil War, was waiting it out, trying to
keep his fractured Republican coalition
together and not fracture it by naming
someone. In fact, he shrewdly ended up
naming one of his opponents in the Re-
publican Party as the nominee who
would come after he was reelected.
It is interesting to me how things
seem to get twisted around in some of
this debate. I heard last night during
the debate time that Amy Coney Bar-
rett refused to answer the questions—
the most basic questions about what
she believes about things. The shock-
ing thing is, Amy Coney Barrett did
the exact same thing that Ruth Bader
Ginsburg did during her nomination
and that every nominee has said. They
said: I am a judge. I can’t tell you how
I am going to rule on it because it has
to be based on the facts of the case. It
not something I can just make up on
the spot.
In fact, this is what was quoted from
Justice Ginsburg when she was Judge
Ginsburg at the time and going
through the nomination process. This
is from Judge Ginsburg:
I come to this proceeding to be judged as a
judge, not as an advocate. Because I am and
hope to continue to be a judge, it would be
wrong for me to say or to preview in this leg-
islative chamber how I would cast my vote
on questions the Supreme Court may be
called upon to decide. Were I to rehearse
here what I would say and how I would rea-
son on such questions, I would act injudi-
ciously.
Judges in our system are bound to decide
concrete cases, not abstract issues. Each
case comes to the court based on particular
facts and its decision should turn on those
facts and the governing law, stated and ex-
plained in light of the particular arguments
the parties or their representatives present.
A judge sworn to decide impartially can offer
no forecasts, no hints, for that would show
not only disregard for the specifics of the
particular case, it would display disdain for
the entire judicial process.
For some reason Justice Ginsburg
was celebrated by the left for not say-
ing how she would rule, but Amy Coney
Barrett has been shown disdain for say-
ing she is not telling exactly how she
will rule on every single issue.
The most painful thing I heard last
night when I was in the Chair and that
I have heard over and over again in the
dialogue has been a sad, personal de-
struction and deception, pushing Amy
Coney Barrett over and over again as a
closet racist and segregationist. I am
disappointed that even this candidate
is being challenged as a racist, quiet
segregationist. It is the firebomb
thrown into the middle of a dialogue.
Over and over again, she was chal-
lenged by saying what would she do
with Brown v. Board of Education, as if
quietly she is a segregationist.
Over and over again, her concept on
originalism was pushed, and here is
how it was framed on the debate on
this floor: She is an originalist. That
means she is backward-looking. That
means she is supportive of those White
men who supported slavery and would
not allow women to be able to vote be-
cause, in their perspective, that is
what an originalist is. They want to go
back to slavery and segregation and re-
moving the rights of women to vote—
even saying last night that originalists
go back to the time of child labor.
It is a smear. It is a personal attack,
and it is an act of desperation. It is an
attempt to terrify the American people
that this mother of seven is to be
feared because she will take away your
healthcare; she will take away your
rights; she will remove every option
that protects the rights of individuals
in a free society; and, as was stated
last night, she is afraid of ‘‘we the peo-
ple.’’
We have a responsibility in this body
to set the tone for the debate. We dis-
agree on things strongly, and so do the
American people. But this should not
be a place of smears and personal at-
tacks and disdain for each other and
for labeling people—something that if
we were to sit down face-to-face and I
were to ask the Members on the other
side of this Chamber ‘‘Do you really
think that Judge Barrett is a segrega-
tionist?’’ I have every confidence that
Members on the other side would say
‘‘No, but it plays well to the base.’’
What have we become?
Future Justice Barrett, now Judge
Barrett, was labeled over and over
again as a person who doesn’t have her
own mind, who is running big-dollar
donors from the Federalist Society and
is just a puppet of the right, someone
who actually was labeled to be
groomed by the right for this position,
as if that judge has not studied,
worked, and prepared her entire life to
serve.
She has her own mind. She is well
prepared. She is eminently qualified,
and she is not a secret racist segrega-
tionist coming to take away healthcare
from Americans. She is a judge who
has heard 600 cases, graduated first in
her law school class, taught law for 15
years at Notre Dame University, is
well prepared, and, yes, does have this
originalist view of the Constitution,
meaning you can’t just look at it and
make it say what you want to. People
on this floor can try to put words in
her mouth which she has not said, as I
heard over and over again, like her de-
sire is to suppress voters. You cannot
change how well prepared she is for
this task and this moment.
I am grateful that America continues
to produce great leaders and great indi-
viduals who work hard in their per-
sonal lives, who study and prepare
themselves to be ready to do whatever
God calls them to do, and who are in-
tently focused on serving their fellow
Americans in the best way they pos-
sibly can.
We ask of Justices one thing—at
least I do: Follow the law. It seems my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
are terrified that someone may just
come follow the law and that policy ar-
guments may have to be debated back
in Congress again. Well, I hope that is
true because there are policy argu-
ments we need to resolve as a country,
but let’s resolve them in this Chamber,
not in the one across the street. The
one across the street, let’s keep it non-
political, focus on just helping Ameri-
cans follow the law.
I look forward to voting for Amy
Coney Barrett later on tonight, and I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.398 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6570 October 25, 2020
look forward to the day when false ac-
cusations are seen for what they really
are. Let’s do the right thing, and let’s
do it the right way.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise
today out of grave concern with the di-
rection of the Senate as an institution
and with the choices being made on be-
half of the American people.
By almost every account, our econ-
omy remains severely wounded by the
effects of the COVID–19 pandemic.
Cases are still rising. In fact, a record
was set just in the last couple of days.
Small businesses are, unfortunately,
closing at an accelerating rate. Fore-
closures and evictions are on the rise.
Jobless benefits for many have run out.
And our State and local governments
are running dangerously low on re-
sources to assist teachers, first re-
sponders, firefighters, and so many
others.
But rather than focusing on the im-
mediate needs of the American people
and acting to remove the uncertainty
being felt by families across this coun-
try and in the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia, the Senate is preparing to pursue
a partisan exercise to fundamentally
alter the composition of our Supreme
Court.
This comes as we are just a week
away from November 3, when Ameri-
cans will go to the polls to cast their
ballots in a Presidential election. In
my State, the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia, literally almost 2 million Vir-
ginians have already voted.
President Trump and the majority
leader are jamming through, at this
moment, a divisive nominee to fill Jus-
tice Ginsburg’s seat on the Supreme
Court—Judge Amy Coney Barrett.
The Senate has never confirmed a
Supreme Court nominee this close to
election day. The election is in a week.
Nearly 60 million people have already
voted. And while they eviscerate Sen-
ate precedent and rush toward a Su-
preme Court nomination, they delay
passing the kind of critical legislation
in terms of additional COVID relief
that would help millions of Americans
make it through the economic crisis.
Think about that. Every day we wait
to pass a comprehensive COVID stim-
ulus bill, more people than necessary
will get sick, some will die, businesses
will be lost. Families will lose their
homes, and millions of unemployed
workers will continue to wonder how
they are going to make ends meet.
So why has the President rushed
Judge Barrett’s nomination through
the Senate? The President is jamming
through this nomination because there
is so much on the line with this Su-
preme Court vacancy.
On November 10, just 1 week after the
election, the Supreme Court will hear a
case that could invalidate the Afford-
able Care Act and rip healthcare cov-
erage away from more than 20 million
Americans—20 million Americans—in
the middle of a pandemic.
The President and my Republican
colleagues here in Congress have al-
ready tried—and tried again and tried
again—and failed to repeal the Afford-
able Care Act through Congress. Now
they have turned to our Nation’s Su-
preme Court in a purely political effort
that could devastate our Nation’s
healthcare system.
They have offered no replacement
plan that would adequately protect in-
dividuals with preexisting conditions,
and millions of Americans will then be
set to lose their healthcare coverage
should the ACA be overturned.
I have come to this floor many times
and acknowledged that the ACA is not
perfect. There are places where it could
be improved. But in the years since its
passage, I have heard from countless
Virginians who have benefited from the
law—individuals who have gained ac-
cess to healthcare coverage for the
first time, cancer patients who can no
longer be kicked off their plans and de-
nied coverage, 8 million Americans
who now have COVID and who now
have a preexisting condition. I have
talked to small business owners and
entrepreneurs who are now able to get
coverage on the individual exchange
and consequently start that business
that otherwise they couldn’t take the
risk of starting and so many of Vir-
ginia’s seniors who have seen their
drug costs go down thanks to impor-
tant reforms in the ACA.
That, in and of itself, being consid-
ered by the Supreme Court a week
after election, would be more than
enough reason to wait and delay and
let the American people first have
their say. But that is not all that is at
stake in future cases before the Su-
preme Court.
This Court—the Court that would
disproportionately be moved out of the
mainstream—will be looking at every-
thing from reproductive rights to vot-
ing rights, to rights for LGBTQ people.
All of these hang in the balance. Given
those stakes, the American people have
a right to have their voices heard be-
fore the confirmation of a new Justice.
In 2016, Majority Leader MITCH
MCCONNELL set a standard when he re-
fused to consider President Obama’s
Supreme Court nominee 10 months
prior to the election. I strongly ob-
jected to the majority leader’s actions
in 2016, but he is the majority leader.
He had the votes. And now that is the
precedent by which we should govern
this Supreme Court nomination, be-
cause the truth is, we can’t have one
set of rules for Democratic Presidents
and a different set of rules for Repub-
lican Presidents.
Our system of checks and balances
has held strong and lasting for more
than 200 years, and it was simply not
meant to bear the brunt of such cyni-
cism and hypocrisy.
The Senate should get to the real
needs of the American people—a deal
that I know Secretary Mnuchin and
Speaker PELOSI are quite close to.
Let’s split the difference and get it
done. We should not be considering a
Supreme Court nomination before In-
auguration Day. Yet the majority lead-
er is continuing forward with votes on
Judge Barrett’s nomination.
Judge Barrett’s record is clear, and
so is my vote. I am voting no. There is
too much at stake.
Thank you.
With that, I suggest the absence of a
quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I rise
to speak in opposition to the nomina-
tion of Amy Coney Barrett to serve as
an Associate Justice on the U.S. Su-
preme Court.
This is no ordinary nomination, and
it comes at no ordinary time in the life
of our Nation. We are in the midst of a
global pandemic that has already
claimed more than 225,000 American
lives. We are a mere 8 days away from
a Presidential election.
Donald Trump announced his nomi-
nation of Judge Barrett even before we
could fully mourn the death of the
great Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg,
and Senate Republicans then rushed
this nomination to the Supreme Court.
In doing so, they violated the rule that
their leader, MITCH MCCONNELL, im-
posed in 2016, which kept Merrick Gar-
land off the Supreme Court after Presi-
dent Obama nominated him in Feb-
ruary of that year to fill the vacancy
that arose with the death of Justice
Antonin Scalia.
That rule was clear. That rule was
concise. That rule was definitive: The
Senate would not consider a nomina-
tion to fill a vacancy on the Supreme
Court during a Presidential election
year.
Many of my Republican colleagues
echoed Leader MCCONNELL’s pledge. In
fact, my colleague, Senator LINDSEY
GRAHAM, who chairs the Judiciary
Committee, admonished us to use his
own words against him if he went back
on his promise: ‘‘If there is a Repub-
lican President in 2016 and a vacancy
occurs in the last year of that term,
you can say that LINDSEY GRAHAM said,
let’s let the next president, whoever it
might be, make that nomination.’’
But the majority has ignored the
McConnell rule and broken their prom-
ises to follow it as they engage in the
outright theft of yet another seat on
the U.S. Supreme Court.
You can’t spell ‘‘shameful’’ without
‘‘sham,’’ and that is what Senate Re-
publicans have turned this Supreme
Court nomination process into—a
sham.
What else is unprecedented about the
circumstances surrounding the Barrett
nomination? Well, in Donald Trump,
who made the Barrett nomination, we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.399 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6571
October 25, 2020
have a President who has repeatedly
refused to commit to a peaceful transi-
tion of power, should he lose the up-
coming election.
In Donald Trump, we have a Presi-
dent who has openly stated that he
needs Judge Barrett on the Supreme
Court to cast a crucial vote if cases
arising out of a disputed election reach
the Court, like Bush v. Gore did after
the 2000 Presidential election.
In Donald Trump, we have a Presi-
dent who has vowed to appoint to the
Supreme Court a Justice who would
vote to overturn Roe v. Wade and take
away a woman’s reproductive rights
and freedom. Even before he was elect-
ed in 2016, he pledged: ‘‘I will appoint
judges that will be pro-life, yes.’’
In Donald Trump, we have a Presi-
dent who has expressly promised that
he would only nominate a Justice who
would vote to get rid of the Affordable
Care Act—ObamaCare—and coverage
for preexisting conditions, and Presi-
dent Trump made that another bright-
line litmus test for this nomination.
In Donald Trump, we have a Presi-
dent who has told us that he needs
Judge Barrett on the Bench to rule in
the Affordable Care Act case the Su-
preme Court is scheduled to hear on
November 10, 1 week after the elec-
tion—a case that will decide the fate of
that law and the availability of health
insurance for millions of Americans
suffering during a pandemic and well
afterward.
If Amy Coney Barrett is confirmed to
the Supreme Court and votes the way
Republicans expect, nearly 3 million
people in Massachusetts with pre-
existing conditions could face higher
costs, fewer benefits, and could have
trouble finding insurance coverage.
Massachusetts was the model for the
Affordable Care Act, but if Donald
Trump and his Supreme Court nominee
have their way, more than 335,000 Bay
Staters enrolled through the Medicaid
expansion could lose their coverage.
As we experience the highest number
of 1-day coronavirus deaths since the
spring, we have a Republican-led Sen-
ate that has been unwilling and unable
to work with their party’s own Presi-
dent to craft desperately needed legis-
lation that would provide relief to the
hundreds of millions of Americans who
are suffering during this pandemic—
Americans who are out of work
through no fault of their own; Ameri-
cans whose small businesses, the en-
gine of our economy, are struggling or
going under; Americans who can’t get
the medicines, the testing, the protec-
tive equipment, or the medical care
they need; Americans who right now
are lacking access to online learning
and the promise of an education.
For weeks and weeks, Senate Repub-
licans would not lift a finger to help
our workers and our families during
this crisis. They would rather our
States and our cities go bankrupt; that
our students go without Wi-Fi—Black,
Brown, and poor children in our coun-
try go without the internet at home
and without the funding to provide it
to those kids. Right now, at the height
of the pandemic, there are going to be
millions of children who do not have
access to the tools they need to be in
the third grade, to be in the fifth grade.
And even today our nurses go without
the masks they need. Yet, when it
comes to filling a vacancy on the Su-
preme Court and confirming a far-right
Justice, these same Republicans made
the Senate move with speed that would
make Usain Bolt jealous.
Jamming through this nomination in
this fashion is unprecedented. It ren-
ders this process and this nomination
illegitimate, period. If Judge Barrett is
confirmed, it will only serve to further
erode the stature and the legitimacy of
the Supreme Court in the eyes of the
American people.
Now, everything to which I have just
pointed—the pandemic, the election,
the corruption—is just the place set-
tings. It is the table onto which Donald
Trump has served up the nomination of
Amy Coney Barrett.
Judge Barrett is a proud originalist
and textualist in the mold of her men-
tor, the late Justice Antonin Scalia,
one of the staunchest and most arch-
conservatives ever to serve on the U.S.
Supreme Court. As Judge Barrett put
it at her own confirmation hearing,
‘‘Justice Scalia’s judicial philosophy is
mine, too.’’
As Judge Barrett describes so-called
originalism, it means she is supposed
to interpret the Constitution’s text and
understand it to have the meaning it
had when the Constitution was rati-
fied, but interpreting the Constitution
in that manner has been used over and
over to deny rights to women, to com-
munities of color, and to LGBTQ indi-
viduals—members of our society who
had no rights when the Constitution
was ratified.
Originalism is racist. Originalism is
sexist. Originalism is homophobic. For
originalists like Judge Barrett,
‘‘LGBT’’ stands for ‘‘let’s go back in
time’’—a time when you couldn’t
marry whom you love; a time when you
couldn’t serve in the military if you
were trans; a time when rights were
not extended to gay, lesbian, bisexual,
transgender, queer, questioning, or
intersex individuals.
‘‘Originalism’’ is just a fancy word
for ‘‘discrimination.’’ It has become a
hazy smokescreen for judicial activism
by so-called conservatives to achieve
from the bench what they cannot ac-
complish through the ballot box and an
elected Congress. As a result, they roll
back individual rights through judicial
decisions.
The activist originalist Justices on
the Supreme Court and lawyers in its
legal community are poised to repeal
the Affordable Care Act, deny repro-
ductive freedom, and repeal same-sex
marriage. They will welcome a Justice
Barrett and a 6-to-3 conservative ma-
jority with open arms.
We know a lot about Judge Barrett’s
judicial philosophy of originalism.
What about her application of it and
her views? Well, in early 2017, 4 months
before Donald Trump nominated her to
serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit, she wrote a law
review article in which she criticized
Chief Justice John Roberts’ majority
opinion in NFIB v. Sebelius, which
upheld the Affordable Care Act. She
made clear she didn’t think much of
Justice Roberts’ opinion, arguing that
he ‘‘pushed the Affordable Care Act be-
yond its plausible meaning to save the
statute.’’
We know from another law review ar-
ticle that Judge Barrett, like many
originalists, does not give precedent
the respect that it deserves. In 2013, she
wrote that because a Justice’s duty is
to the Constitution, there is ‘‘more le-
gitimacy in enforcing her best under-
standing of the Constitution rather
than a precedent she thinks clearly is
in conflict with it.’’ In other words, she
believes that her own interpretation of
the Constitution is more important
and more legitimate than precedent
such as Roe v. Wade.
We know from her dissenting opinion
in Kanter v. Barr that she believes a
felony conviction shouldn’t necessarily
result in losing the right to own a gun,
but she is OK with felony convictions
taking away the right to vote. She
would make it easier for a felon to own
a gun than to vote. That is the kind of
result that Judge Barrett’s originalism
gets us into.
So, on many of these issues, Amy
Coney Barrett has shown us that she
couldn’t be further in spirit from Ruth
Bader Ginsburg, the late, great Justice
whose seat on the Nation’s highest
Court she will fill. While Justice Gins-
burg always had us looking forward,
Amy Coney Barrett and her
originalism will always have us look-
ing backwards—and backwards is pre-
cisely the direction in which this Na-
tion should not be going.
What we know from Amy Coney
Barrett’s own words is very troubling.
Yet then, at her confirmation hearing,
we learned that there are many basic,
fundamental legal issues on which she
would not say a word and she would
keep her views hidden.
At her confirmation hearing, Judge
Barrett declined to answer questions
about such important propositions as
whether it is unlawful to engage in
voter intimidation—spoiler alert: it is;
questions about whether the President
can delay a Presidential election—news
flash: he can’t; questions about wheth-
er Presidents should commit to a
peaceful transition of power—listen up:
they should; questions about whether
Obergefell v. Hodges, the landmark Su-
preme Court decision recognizing the
right to gay marriage and making mar-
riage equality the law of the land was
correctly decided—no doubt about it, it
was; questions about whether the non-
discrimination provisions of the Af-
fordable Care Act protect LGBTQ peo-
ple from discriminatory treatment in
healthcare—of course they do; ques-
tions about whether Roe v. Wade was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.401 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6572 October 25, 2020
correctly decided and is a superprece-
dent—it was and it is; questions about
whether Medicare is constitutional—of
course it is; questions about whether
climate change is real and whether
human beings cause it—it is and we do.
On these and so many important
issues and questions, Judge Barrett re-
fused to give the obvious and indis-
putably correct answers, but based on
her judicial philosophy, her writings,
and her record, I have little doubt
where she really stands, and that is in
the same corner with rightwing, reac-
tionary jurists who are far outside the
mainstream of American jurispru-
dence.
Finally, there is another question
that Judge Barrett would not answer:
whether, if confirmed, she will recuse
herself from the Affordable Care Act
case and any election cases that reach
the Supreme Court.
There is a Federal statute that gov-
erns the recusal decision. It requires
recusal in situations where a judge’s
impartiality might reasonably be ques-
tioned. President Trump himself put
Judge Barrett’s impartiality at issue
when he confessed that he needed
Judge Barrett on the Supreme Court to
decide any election disputes. He did it
when he said he would only appoint a
Justice who would help to overturn the
healthcare law.
After reviewing Judge Barrett’s
record and listening to her testimony
before the Judiciary Committee, it is
becoming clear that we have a binary
choice: We can have the Affordable
Care Act, or we can have Amy Coney
Barrett on the Supreme Court. We can
have the ACA, or we can have ACB, but
we can’t have both.
Judge Barrett needs to do the right
thing and recuse herself.
I will conclude by noting the irony
that Ruth Bader Ginsburg and MITCH
MCCONNELL were both on the same
page as to this nomination. In 2016,
Senator MCCONNELL gave us his prom-
ise that the Senate would not fill a va-
cancy on the Supreme Court in a Presi-
dential election year. After she passed,
we learned that it was Justice Gins-
burg’s dying wish that she not be re-
placed until a new President is in-
stalled. So let’s hold MITCH MCCONNELL
and LINDSEY GRAHAM to their words
and honor Justice Ginsburg’s fervent
wish: no confirmation before inaugura-
tion.
But if Republicans succeed here
today in their effort to confirm yet an-
other conservative Supreme Court Jus-
tice just days before the Presidential
election, as soon as the Democrats
take back control of the Senate in Jan-
uary, we must abolish the filibuster
and expand the Supreme Court. We
cannot allow such corrupt partisanship
to take precedence over justice and lib-
erty in our country.
I will vote against the confirmation
of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the
U.S. Supreme Court and urge my col-
leagues—all of my colleagues—to do
the same.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I would
like to start by giving a quick history
lesson, and I will begin with just two
numbers. These two numbers speak to
how extraordinary it is that we are
here today debating and voting on a
nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court.
The first number is four. Four. That
is how many Supreme Court vacancies
have arisen after July 1 and before
election day in a Presidential election
year. Only four times in the history of
this country has a Supreme Court va-
cancy arisen within 4 months of a Pres-
idential election.
The next number I think is very im-
portant to remember, and that number
is zero. Zero. That is how many times
these vacancies were filled. In fact,
similar to this vacancy, President Lin-
coln had a Senate majority when a va-
cancy arose just weeks before election
day in 1864. What did he do? He chose
to wait. President Lincoln thought
nominating a Justice so close to an
election would delegitimize our insti-
tutions and harm the Republic that he
was fighting so hard to preserve.
That is the precedent that President
Trump and Senate Republicans have
disregarded as they quickly plotted to
fill the seat just hours, if not minutes,
after Justice Ginsburg’s passing.
In addition to breaking with this his-
torical precedent, Republicans are also
jamming through their nomination in
the middle of a pandemic that is grip-
ping our country.
Instead of prioritizing Michigan first
responders, small businesses, workers,
teachers, families, and healthcare pro-
fessionals who are still suffering
through the effects of the coronavirus
pandemic, Senate Republicans and the
President are instead laser-focused on
jamming through a Supreme Court
nominee for a lifetime appointment.
This is more than just political
gamesmanship. This nominee will sig-
nificantly impact the lives of
Michiganians and folks all across our
country.
We know that the Supreme Court is
set to shortly consider a case that has
far-reaching ramifications for people’s
healthcare. The Trump administration
is arguing in Court that the Affordable
Care Act should be overturned in a case
that will come before the Supreme
Court in November, just 7 days after
election day.
If the Trump administration gets its
way in this lawsuit, we could go back
to the days when insurance companies
once again call the shots on people’s
healthcare. Over 4 million
Michiganders with preexisting
healthcare conditions could be denied
coverage. Seniors could be charged
more for prescription drugs. Lifetime
and annual limits on coverage could
make costs unaffordable and, as a re-
sult, force families into bankruptcy.
Before the passage of the Affordable
Care Act, medical debt was the No. 1
reason for personal bankruptcy. People
faced financial devastation simply be-
cause they got sick. Women could
again be charged more for being a
woman because a potential pregnancy
is a preexisting condition.
We have come way too far to be turn-
ing the clock backward. For the Trump
administration to be pushing this law-
suit is reckless and dangerous, espe-
cially during the worst public health
and economic crisis in generations.
But that is not all that is at stake. A
woman’s right to make her own
healthcare decisions and reproductive
freedom is at stake. Workers’ rights
against corporate special interests are
at stake. Environmental justice is at
stake. Access to the ballot box is at
stake. Attempts to end the corrosive
effect of money in campaigns and elec-
tions is at stake. And LGBTQ rights
are at stake. Those are just some of the
many issues that a Supreme Court Jus-
tice with a lifetime appointment will
be ruling on for decades to come.
Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s nomina-
tion has extremely far-reaching con-
sequences.
We are just a few days from election
day. Already over 2 million
Michiganders have voted, and many
more are voting as I speak here today.
With all that is at stake, Michiganders
deserve a say in who nominates and
confirms the next Justice to our Na-
tion’s highest Court. And the fact that
Michiganders are being denied this op-
portunity is simply unacceptable.
Therefore, I cannot support this nom-
ination process. It should wait until a
new President and Senate take office
following an election to take place in
only a few days. For this reason and
many others, I will not be voting for
Judge Barrett’s confirmation. I will
cast a ‘‘no’’ vote.
Here we are. Instead of bringing folks
together to find common ground on
coronavirus relief, our country is being
forced to go through a divisive Su-
preme Court nomination process. It
simply did not have to be this way.
I continue to stand ready to roll up
my sleeves and put together a com-
prehensive, bipartisan, and meaningful
COVID relief package. Ask any Michi-
gander what they are worried about
today, and you are going to get the
same answers from them. They are
worried about being able to put food on
the table or a roof over their head.
They are worried about getting or
keeping a job to support their families.
They are worried about catching a
virus that has killed over 7,000 of their
fellow Michiganders and over 220,000
people all across our Nation. They are
worried that, if they survive a COVID
infection, it will compromise their
health for the rest of their lives. They
will have a preexisting condition.
So I ask: Why isn’t this pandemic the
Senate’s top priority right now? When
we passed the CARES Act, we came to-
gether. We put politics aside and
passed a real comprehensive package
that helped keep millions of people
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.403 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6573
October 25, 2020
stay afloat. We need to summon that
spirit again. Michiganders are counting
on us. Americans across this country
are counting on us.
I implore my colleagues to drop what
we are doing, and let’s come together
and pass a meaningful, bipartisan
COVID relief package, and let’s get
that done now.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, I rise
today as more than 220,000 Americans
are dead from the coronavirus. There
are more than 4 million fewer jobs than
when Donald Trump took office. We are
still squarely in the middle of this pan-
demic and an economic crisis, the likes
of which we have not seen since the
Great Depression.
In recent weeks, cases of the
coronavirus have risen dramatically. In
my home State of New Mexico—and,
frankly, across the entire country—ev-
eryone is rightly worried about wheth-
er our schools, our childcare centers,
and our small businesses can acquire
the resources and the equipment they
need to reopen safely.
We still don’t have enough resources
or even a national plan for testing and
contact tracing, much less for treat-
ments and the eventual nationwide dis-
tribution of an FDA-approved vaccine
that would allow us to finally get a
handle on this virus.
If we don’t pass real economic relief
in the coming weeks, many families in
New Mexico will face desperate
choices—between paying their bills,
keeping a roof over their heads, and
putting food on the table. Yet here we
are, using valuable time on a Supreme
Court confirmation process that should
never have been taken up before the
election.
Senate Republicans say they aren’t
going to negotiate another coronavirus
relief package. They say it is more im-
portant to ram a Supreme Court nomi-
nee through a broken and nakedly po-
litical process than it is to help the
people that we were all elected to
serve.
Clearly, nothing—not even the lives
or livelihoods of the American people—
will get in the way of their power-grab
design to reward their biggest donors
and the most extreme interests.
Let me say this clearly: I disagree.
There is still so much that we need to
do to stop the spread of the
coronavirus and to support families,
workers, and businesses that are strug-
gling and to rebuild our communities.
Let’s move to that urgent action.
But with Senate Republicans refus-
ing to do that, let’s discuss in real
terms what they are doing instead.
Considering and confirming Supreme
Court nominees is one of a Senator’s
most solemn duties under the Constitu-
tion. We are supposed to take it seri-
ously and deliberately, but Senate Re-
publicans have thrown out the rule
book. It started when, with nearly a
full year remaining in President
Obama’s final term, Senate Repub-
licans refused to even hold hearings on
Merrick Garland, the nominee to re-
place the late justice Antonin Scalia.
Then, they dismantled the rules that
had ensured that both parties would
have a seat at the table on Supreme
Court nominations. Then, they bull-
rushed the vetting process for Justice
Kavanaugh’s lifetime appointment to
the Court, despite multiple, credible al-
legations of sexual misconduct.
After all of that, I suppose it should
have come as no real surprise that Ma-
jority Leader MCCONNELL waited less
than an hour after the announcement
of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s death
to say that he was going to push the
envelope even further.
So here we are. Leader MCCONNELL
and Republicans are now forcing the
Senate to rush through another par-
tisan Supreme Court confirmation bat-
tle in mere weeks—and now mere days
before election day.
They are shamelessly discarding
their own precedents, breaking their
own rules, abandoning their own words,
and they are trampling on the legacy
of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Before
her death, Justice Ginsburg told her
granddaughter that her ‘‘most fervent
wish’’ was that her seat wouldn’t be
filled until after the next President is
inaugurated.
Justice Ginsburg served on our Na-
tion’s highest Court for nearly three
decades and worked for decades before
that to move our country’s laws toward
greater equality. She understood that
the American people must trust that
the Supreme Court Justices are acting
above the partisan politics of the mo-
ment.
The next Presidential election is now
less than two weeks away. Millions of
Americans have already voted for their
next President and their next Senators.
I believe that these Americans deserve
a voice in this process.
In the words of Majority Leader
MCCONNELL himself, as was reported in
the Washington Post on February 18,
2016, ‘‘Given that we are in the midst of
a presidential election process . . . the
American people should seize the op-
portunity to weigh in on whom they
trust to nominate the next person for a
lifetime appointment to the Supreme
Court.’’
The Senate should follow that prece-
dent and should allow voters to decide
who should fill this Supreme Court
seat. What has changed for Majority
Leader MCCONNELL? Well, over the last
decade, the Court has made razor-thin
5-to-4 rulings on women’s rights,
LGBTQ rights, workers’ rights, immi-
gration, voting rights, civil rights, cli-
mate change, and so much else. My Re-
publican colleagues will say that these
decisions were made by activist judges
and that all they want are judges who
will call balls and strikes. But what
they really want are judges who will
make those calls consistently biased
toward wealth and power, rather than
toward people.
For all the talk of activist judges, it
is my Republican colleagues who are
right now attempting to add one whop-
per of an activist to the Supreme
Court.
Next month, the Supreme Court will
take up President Trump’s case to
eliminate the Affordable Care Act in
its entirety. That is right. In the mid-
dle of this pandemic that has now
killed more than 220,000 Americans and
infected millions more, the Supreme
Court is taking up a case that could
eliminate healthcare coverage for mil-
lions of Americans.
Judge Barrett refused to answer
questions about the Affordable Care
Act during her confirmation hearing
last week. But her views on the
healthcare law are clear and they are
exposed in the public record. Judge
Barrett has repeatedly and publicly
criticized the Affordable Care Act. She
has said that the Supreme Court
should have already invalidated it. If
Senate Republicans have their way, she
will have the opportunity to do just
that.
What would it mean if the Supreme
Court overturns the Affordable Care
Act? It means bringing back discrimi-
nation, higher costs, and even outright
denial of coverage for more than 800,000
New Mexicans living with preexisting
conditions like heart disease, diabetes,
cancer, and now COVID–19.
I am particularly worried about what
this would mean for the people in In-
dian Country, who have been dispropor-
tionately impacted by this pandemic.
In New Mexico, Tribal nations have ex-
perienced heartbreaking losses, and
healthcare resources in Tribal commu-
nities have been incredibly strained.
I have lost friends and mentors in In-
dian Country, and I know others who
are still struggling to recover from this
virus. I can’t even imagine how much
worse this situation could become if
the health coverage provided by the Af-
fordable Care Act were ripped away.
When we passed the Affordable Care
Act, I fought hard to include a perma-
nent reauthorization of the entire In-
dian Health Care Improvement Act,
which supports the care provided to
Native Americans through the Indian
Health Service.
An estimated 290,000 American Indi-
ans and Alaskan Natives also gained
health coverage through the Affordable
Care Act’s Medicaid expansion. All of
that is at risk if the Supreme Court
overturns the Affordable Care Act.
If Judge Barrett is confirmed, she
will also attack other important Su-
preme Court precedents, from Roe v.
Wade to the recent marriage equality
decisions. She dodged questions on
these issues during her hearing.
But her academic and judicial record
made clear Judge Barrett’s extreme be-
liefs and philosophy. In her hearing
last week, Judge Barrett also refused
to take a firm view on climate change.
We have major wildfires burning right
now in Northern New Mexico—in Octo-
ber—Colorado and California are seeing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.405 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6574 October 25, 2020
much of the same. We don’t have time
to debate the undisputed facts and re-
alities of climate change, especially
with a judge who would strip us of the
tools needed to address it.
Tellingly, Judge Barrett also refused
to agree to recuse herself from any de-
cisions related to the upcoming Presi-
dential election. Given that President
Trump considers Judge Barrett ‘‘his’’
Justice, this creates a dangerous con-
flict of interest. It is also a very real
threat to the foundation of the Su-
preme Court as an equal and inde-
pendent branch of government.
Meanwhile, instead of attempting to
tear down our democracy, the House of
Representatives has passed multiple
coronavirus relief bills over the last 6
months that would help workers and
families. And they are already willing
and able to negotiate with the Presi-
dent, to negotiate with Leader MCCON-
NELL to come to some sort of bipar-
tisan agreement. Majority Leader
MCCONNELL and Senate Republicans
have walked away from the negotiating
table, leaving us with nothing but false
promises and sham bills to provide
themselves a little political cover be-
fore an election.
We all know the real story here. Be-
hind closed doors, Majority Leader
MCCONNELL is actively discouraging
negotiations on a bipartisan relief bill.
Let me say this to Majority Leader
MCCONNELL and all of my Republican
colleagues: If voters reelect your Re-
publican majority and President
Trump, there will be plenty of time to
move forward with a real and legiti-
mate Supreme Court confirmation
process.
Right now, we should be focusing all
of our energy on delivering the aid that
Americans so desperately need, pro-
tecting the health and the economic
well-being of Americans. That is what
our country expects of us. That is our
duty. Let’s get to it.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). The Senator from Missouri.
Mr. HAWLEY. Madam President,
some months ago, in July of this year,
I came to this floor shortly after the
conclusion of the Supreme Court’s
most recent term to lament the ongo-
ing judicial activism—the judicial im-
perialism—that we have seen from this
Court over this past term and from the
Supreme Court for years on end.
I quote the late Justice Scalia who
said: ‘‘The imperial judiciary lives.’’
I said on the floor of this Senate—
and it was a shame to say but was un-
deniable—that the imperial judiciary
continued to live in this country—a ju-
diciary intent and a Supreme Court in-
tent on legislating from the Bench, on
making up laws that went along with
no regard for what the people actually
wrote in their statutes or in their laws.
I particularly lamented the position
of religious conservatives, of people of
faith, who had seen in this past term
from the U.S. Supreme Court decision
after decision that tossed aside the
concerns of religious conservatives and
faithful Americans and who had
watched the Supreme Court legislate
and depart from the text of written
laws with barely any concern for the
effects on religious liberties. In fact, it
tossed aside concerns about religious
liberty, religious freedom, and in one
or two lines of opinions, the effect on
religious institutions. This is what we
have been seeing from the U.S. Su-
preme Court.
Religious conservatives have come to
a place of asking: What is it that we
are fighting for? What is it that we
have been working for and voting for
all of these years? Is anybody actually
listening to us? Do our votes really
matter?
Those are the questions that reli-
gious conservatives were asking in
July of this year, and that is why the
nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to
the Supreme Court of the United
States comes as such historic and wel-
comed news to people of faith in this
country, to religious conservatives,
and to all who believe in the rule of law
in America.
The nomination of Amy Coney Bar-
rett is truly historic. This is the most
openly pro-life judicial nominee to the
Supreme Court in my lifetime. This is
an individual who has been open in her
criticism of that illegitimate decision
Roe v. Wade.
She is a nominee who has been open
about her faith and her faith commit-
ments and the way she and her husband
live their lives—immersed in their
Catholic faith—and raise their children
in their Catholic faith and want others
to have the freedom to be able to do
the same. Her nomination and, I antici-
pate, her confirmation tonight, in just
a few hours on this floor, will show
that there is nothing wrong with any of
that.
In fact, people of faith should be wel-
comed on the Supreme Court of the
United States, and people of Judge
Barrett’s convictions should be wel-
comed on the Supreme Court of the
United States. In just a few hours, with
the vote of this body, we will confirm
that this is, indeed, the case.
I have to say that Judge Barrett’s
own positions and her convictions give
me great confidence that she under-
stands the difference between judging
and legislating—that she will not be a
judicial imperialist as I have talked
about on this floor in months past.
Now, I said earlier this year that I
would not vote for a Supreme Court
nominee who did not understand the
difference between judging, on the one
hand, and legislating on the other and
that I would not vote for a judicial im-
perialist. I specifically singled out Roe
v. Wade and said that I would not vote
for a Supreme Court nominee who did
not understand that Roe was an act of
judicial imperialism and that, indeed, I
wanted to see record evidence that the
nominee understood that Roe was an
act of judicial imperialism and under-
stood the difference between legis-
lating from the Bench and actually ad-
hering to the Constitution and the
laws.
I am proud to support the nomina-
tion and confirmation of Judge Amy
Barrett because her record makes
abundantly clear that she understands
the role of a judge and that she under-
stands the role that the Constitution
assigns to the judiciary. It is not the
role of legislating. It is not the role of
imposing policy preferences or personal
views. It is the role of following the
law. Her record indicates that she un-
derstands that and is committed to fol-
lowing that role and committed to re-
viving that approach, that constitu-
tional approach to judgment—that she
will fight for it and revive it on the Su-
preme Court of the United States.
So I am delighted to support her
nomination. I am delighted to have
someone of her convictions. I am de-
lighted to have someone who has taken
the stances that she has taken as a
legal practitioner, as an academic, and
as a judge. Yes, that includes her posi-
tion on life, and, yes, that includes her
position on Roe.
We will set a precedent tonight that
people of faith and people of the con-
victions that Judge Barrett has and
shares are welcomed in this country in
every office. They are welcomed on the
highest Court in the land, and we need
not ask people of convictions to give up
those convictions in order to serve on
the Supreme Court of the United
States. We need not say: Oh, you have
to scrub your personal views. Oh, you
have to pretend that you don’t have re-
ligious faith or you have to pretend
that it doesn’t matter to you. You have
to renounce your past record. We do
not have to do any of that.
What we have to ask them to do is to
understand the difference between
judging and lawmaking. What we have
to ask them to do is to understand
their role that the Constitution assigns
them. We have to ask them to be com-
mitted to following the law. I am con-
vinced, based on her record, that Judge
Barrett will do exactly that.
For those reasons, I am delighted to
support her confirmation, and I look
forward to this historic vote in just a
few hours’ time.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. HAWLEY. Madam President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BOOKER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BOOKER. Thank you, Madam
President, my colleague from Iowa. I
am grateful.
Madam President, I rise today to
speak on the nomination of Amy Coney
Barrett. I rise in the midst of a pan-
demic, in the midst of an election proc-
ess in which over 50 million Americans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.407 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6575
October 25, 2020
have already voted, to speak with a
simple call that we should wait. We
should not be doing this as a body.
Now, that is not a radical statement.
It is a statement that has been said by
pretty much every Member of the
Democratic side, but it is also a state-
ment that was made by many people in
the Republican Party before we got to
this juncture.
It was said around the time that
Merrick Garland was up for nomina-
tion by President Barack Obama 269
days before an election, and people said
that we were in an election season;
that we should wait.
But this is not a typical election sea-
son. This is an election that is going on
where the people are coming out to
speak on an array of issues. There is a
profound urgency in the air—not a par-
tisan urgency. America has seen record
turnout because they know what is at
stake in this election.
There are issues that are driving peo-
ple to the polls, and in this context,
our President is doing what has never
been done before. The only time this
had a chance to be done before was
when Abraham Lincoln had a vacancy
on the Supreme Court in the midst of
an election—this close to an election.
Abraham Lincoln—one of our greatest
Presidents of all time—made a power-
ful choice. He had the power to move,
and he had the power to nominate, but
he showed a restraint on power. He
showed, in a sense, what we would call
an act of grace. He knew that in the
midst of an election, when people were
coming out to speak, that it was better
to wait.
This grace is also what was called for
by Ruth Bader Ginsburg on her death-
bed. She didn’t know who would win
this election, but she thought it was
best to call to the better angels of our
nature; that sometimes the greatest
demonstration of power is when we do
not use it; that this precious democ-
racy, this great experiment that has
endured for this period of time, has
sustained itself on acts of decency and
grace and most importantly on trust—
trusting people, trusting Americans,
and trusting voters.
We haven’t always gotten it right,
but this fundamental ideal that when
people are exercising their voice, the
people in this body should listen. Over
50 million Americans. We are days—in
fact, hours—away from the actual elec-
tion day, but the process has started
already. People are speaking, but we
are refusing to listen.
I fear that what is driving many peo-
ple to the polls are some of the very
issues that this Supreme Court Justice
will be in a position to hear. We know
that Donald Trump spent the last 4
years trying to overturn the Affordable
Care Act. He made a promise to only
appoint Justices who would overturn
it. He promised that he would nomi-
nate a judge who would ‘‘do the right
thing unlike Bush’s appointee John
Roberts on ObamaCare.’’ This is clear.
We know that the majority leader,
MITCH MCCONNELL, controlling this
floor, has spent years trying to over-
turn the Affordable Care Act. In fact,
between the House and the Senate,
there have been over 70 votes to over-
turn the Affordable Care Act.
We know there is a case that will
come before the Supreme Court on No-
vember 10 that could very well deter-
mine whether over 600,000 people in my
State and 20 million people across the
country can keep their health cov-
erage.
So this is not a secret. The American
people know what is going on. They see
what is happening here. Many of them,
I believe, are going to the polls to
speak about the issue of healthcare,
and instead of waiting and trusting to
hear and listen to the will of the peo-
ple, we are here right now.
Folk are scared. We are, in a sense,
walking through the valley of the shad-
ow of death—the fourth largest mass
casualty event in the history of our
country, and the death rate is rising
every single day. That is why so many
Americans have been speaking out and
calling out, because they know what
this nomination could very well mean
for their lives and for the lives of their
family members. They know what a
world without the ACA would be like.
For a President to nominate some-
one—a President hostile to the ACA—a
Supreme Court Justice who has spoken
to this, they know what this might
mean. We know that for 3.8 million
New Jerseyans and 130 million Ameri-
cans who have preexisting conditions—
people with diabetes; cancer survivors;
people with diseases like my dad had,
Parkinson’s—it could mean being
charged more or being denied coverage
completely. This is a terrifying reality.
Folk who are going to the polls, wait-
ing hours in a line, know what it could
mean—that once again more people are
going to be bankrupted by outrageous
medical bills.
They know what it could mean for
lifetime caps on care for children with
complex medical conditions.
They know what it could mean for a
family with a child who survived a
medical procedure and another medical
procedure and another medical proce-
dure, surgery after surgery, being told:
If you want your child to live, pay for
it yourself.
So many Americans know what it
would mean for seniors not being able
to afford lifesaving prescriptions, mak-
ing the dangerous decision to cut pills
in half or ration their insulin.
So many Americans know that losing
the ACA could mean real tragedy.
In New Jersey, over 600,000 people are
losing their healthcare in the middle of
a pandemic that in my State has al-
ready killed 16,000 of our first respond-
ers, our neighbors, and in many cases
our friends and our family members.
These are numbers, these are data, and
these are statistics, but each one is a
human life. Each one has dignity, and
each one has family.
I know, for example, Michelle Lewris
from Palisades Park, NJ. When
Michelle lost her husband John sud-
denly last year, she also lost the health
coverage she had through his job. But
she was able to get coverage through
the Affordable Care Act’s marketplace
and qualify for a subsidy that made it
more affordable for her. Today, she is
insured, and she can manage her diabe-
tes and her heart disease and her auto-
immune disease because of her cov-
erage. She said that if she lost her af-
fordable healthcare, she would have to
sell her home and would be in financial
crisis.
Losing the ACA for Merritt Bowman,
who is a 49-year-old dad with twin boys
and a football coach from New Jersey—
he said that before the ACA was
passed, he didn’t even go to the doctor
because he was afraid he couldn’t af-
ford it, putting his own health in dan-
ger. After the ACA, he was able to get
affordable coverage. When he felt sick
a few years back, he made a doctor’s
appointment and was diagnosed with
diabetes. Today, thank God, his condi-
tion has improved, but, he said: Now I
have a preexisting condition. My insur-
ance covers my medication and my
equipment to monitor my diabetes. If
that is taken away from me, what is
going to happen? I can’t afford those
things on my own.
I know this reality. We must know
this reality. We must listen to Ameri-
cans right now who are saying openly:
I am going to the polls because of my
fears on healthcare.
Yet we are going through—instead of
waiting to listen to our fellow Ameri-
cans, showing that grace that they
should decide, we are rushing forward.
What about protections that are
granted people like those under Roe v.
Wade? What about that? Those are de-
cisions that we should let voters de-
cide. We should listen to the American
people. What about protections for
workers? What about protections for
organizers? What about voting rights?
All of these issues in the midst of an
election deserve to be decided by the
people.
The American people know what is at
stake right now because we know that
Donald Trump nominated Judge Bar-
rett with a very specific agenda in
mind. He told us very clearly. We know
that Donald Trump wants the Afford-
able Care Act to be overturned, and he
would appoint judges he believes would
do that. We know that Donald Trump
wants Roe v. Wade overturned. He has
explicitly told us that. We know that
Donald Trump wants us to question the
validity of an election because he has
questioned the validity of an election
that is ongoing right now.
I never imagined I would have a day
in my life as an American citizen—I
have watched other countries, but I
never thought in my own we would
have a leader who would question the
validity of an election, going as far as
to say: If I lose, this election was
rigged, and it was illegitimate.
That does real damage to not just
this moment in time; it does damage to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.409 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6576 October 25, 2020
our very institutions and our processes
that are essential for this democracy.
It is dangerous language.
The behavior of this President is so
dangerous that his own Cabinet mem-
bers—former Cabinet members—have
called it out.
I know the strength of our Nation,
but our institutions must be protected,
and they must be preserved. The proc-
esses that ensure this democracy con-
tinues to go on so that our truth goes
marching on—all have to be protected.
When you have a President who calls
into question our very election proc-
esses and literally says ‘‘If I lose, it is
illegitimate’’ and then says ‘‘I won’t
even commit to a peaceful transfer of
power,’’ that should raise alarms. That
is why people within his own party,
people who served in his own Cabinet,
people respected in this entire body,
like General Mattis, former Secretary
of Defense, have said that Donald
Trump is a threat to our democracy.
It is in that context, in the middle of
a national crisis, that we are in the
midst of an election, and we can’t even
get a Supreme Court nominee to com-
mit themselves to the idea of the
peaceful transfer of power, who the
President himself has said he is rush-
ing to the highest Court in the land be-
cause he believes that this election
may be decided by that judge. That
judge won’t even commit to being
recused under these circumstances. Is
that strengthening our democracy? Is
that girding trust in our country’s
processes, or is it weakening them? Be-
cause it clearly is doing damage to
what is necessary for the endurance of
our country and our ideas.
These aren’t just my words; these are
the words of people on both sides of
America’s political divide. Yet we are
not showing restraint in this moment.
We are not showing that grace. We are
rushing for short-term gain for one po-
litical party and long-term damage to
our Nation.
I don’t understand why this is not
something that raises worry and con-
cern—a President who so easily trashes
some of our most valued and sac-
rosanct ideas.
I remember the hurt I felt when
peaceful protesters in Lafayette Park
were turned upon. I remember a note I
was forwarded from a college class-
mate—if I have it correct—about her
son being hit with a rubber bullet. I re-
member journalists whom I had gotten
to know in these very hallways telling
me about the horror of seeing the panic
and the screams and the running as the
gas and the rubber bullets hit. I saw
how a President seemed to utilize the
military to menace what is one of our
most important constitutional protec-
tions—the right to protest peacefully.
I have seen 4 years now of too many
people who have remained silent in the
face of erosions to our constitutional
norms as the President has so willingly
trashed that which people on both sides
of our political divide have worked so
hard to build up. I stood right there
down near the Presiding Officer and
raised my hand, like so many of us
have—like all of us have—to protect
and defend the Constitution of the
United States.
To not see us right now, in the midst
of a potential constitutional convul-
sion; in the midst of a potential con-
stitutional crisis where a President
himself is not committing to the
peaceful transfer of power; where there
are people organizing to do harm to
elected leaders, kidnap them; when you
could go online right now and look at
groups calling out to people with Spe-
cial Forces training to go to polls and
perhaps cause mayhem—I don’t under-
stand why we don’t share a bipartisan,
deep concern for what is happening
right now in our country and how this
moment in American history fits into
the concern that moving forward right
now causes danger and causes harm.
I would be remiss to not mention
that in the midst of it all, we are also
in the midst of a racial awakening in
our country. We saw what are perhaps
the largest demonstrations in our Na-
tion around issues of racial justice—all
50 States, towns and communities from
all backgrounds, people marching and
protesting around race issues. It has
led millions of Americans to learn
more about our own history, discov-
ering things like the Tulsa massacre,
discovering things like the Colfax mas-
sacre, going to the incredible museum
in Alabama for lynching, where thou-
sands of Americans were lynched in our
country, discovering our history and
how it ties directly to the President.
In the midst of all of this, we know
that issues of race and the law will
continuously come up before the Court
until we have justice rolling down like
water and righteousness like a mighty
stream.
In the midst of all of this, even in my
conversations with this nominee, I was
surprised that they could not speak to
one article, one Law Review article,
one column, or one book they have
read about issues of race in the law,
when we are still in a nation that has
such bias in its outcome, where just by
the color of their skin they are directly
correlated with longer sentences, more
likely to get the mandatory minimum,
more likely to get the death penalty,
where we see no difference between
Blacks and Whites in America for using
marijuana or selling marijuana, but
Blacks are almost four times more
likely to be arrested for possession of
marijuana, getting criminal convic-
tions for doing things that two of the
last three Presidents admitted to
doing.
And in the midst of all of this that
has activated so many Americans and
many even in the polls today, I
couldn’t get even a dialogue going
about issues of race.
When I specifically asked about a
case, Judge Barrett’s case in Smith v.
Illinois Department of Transpor-
tation—this case involved a Black traf-
fic patrol driver who had been fired by
the Illinois Department of Transpor-
tation. This employee claimed that he
had been the subject of a hostile work
environment and that his supervisor
had called him the N-word. Judge Bar-
rett ruled against him saying that de-
spite documenting being called the N-
word by his supervisor, the employee
had failed to make the case that he had
been fired in retaliation for complaints
about race discrimination.
When I asked Judge Barrett why she
ruled that a supervisor using a vial and
derogatory term, one that carries with
it a history of racial subjugation and
violence like the ‘‘N-word,’’ did not
constitute a hostile work environ-
ment—I mentioned that Judge
Kavanaugh, in a similar case, ruled
that it did—I was surprised after her
answers to go back and read the case.
She had muddied the facts in the case.
In fact, she blatantly mischaracterized
a key fact in the case.
Judge Barrett said: ‘‘He didn’t tie the
use of the N-word into the evidence
that he introduced for his hostile work
environment claim.’’ When, in fact, the
employee’s reply brief states: ‘‘Appel-
lant’s position is that the combination
of the N-word and the acts identified
immediately above did create a hostile
work environment.’’
She mischaracterized her own ruling
claiming, ‘‘So the panel very carefully
wrote the opinion to make clear that it
was possible for one use of the N-word
to be enough to establish a hostile
work environment claim if overplayed
that way,’’ when, in fact, her opinion
stated something different:
The N-word is an egregious epitaph. That
said, Smith can’t win simply by providing
that the N-word was uttered.
Again, even Justice Kavanaugh stat-
ed that being called the N-word by a
supervisor suffices in itself to establish
a racially hostile work environment.
Again, in this context, at a moment
that our country is moving in numbers
we have not seen before, we have a Jus-
tice that mischaracterizes a case,
doesn’t speak directly to the facts, as
plain as they were, and can’t engage in
a substantive conversation about any
scholarship whatsoever around race in
America.
I would like to read an excerpt of the
letter from Derrick Johnson, President
and CEO of the NAACP. He writes: ‘‘It
is disturbing enough that Judge Bar-
rett declined to rule that use of this
vial epitaph constituted a racially hos-
tile work environment, but her mis-
representation to the Judiciary Com-
mittee about the basis for her ruling
raises serious questions about her
truthfulness and candor under oath
that extended far beyond this par-
ticular case.’’
I ask unanimous consent that a let-
ter from the Black Lives Matter Global
Network Foundation signed by 18,000
Americans in opposition to the nomi-
nation of Amy Coney Barrett to serve
as Associate Justice on the Supreme
Court of the United States be printed
in the RECORD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.411 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6577
October 25, 2020
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
BLACK LIVES MATTER,
October 21, 2020.
Hon. LINDSEY GRAHAM,
Chairman, Senate Judiciary Committee,
Washington, DC.
Hon. DIANNE FEINSTEIN,
Ranking Member, Senate Judiciary Committee,
Washington, DC.
Re Opposition to the Nomination of Amy
Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court of
the United States.
DEAR CHAIRMAN GRAHAM AND RANKING
MEMBER FEINSTEIN: On behalf of Black Lives
Matter Global Network Foundation, Inc. the
umbrella organization for our global move-
ment, I strongly urge you to oppose the nom-
ination of Amy Coney Barrett to serve as As-
sociate Justice on the Supreme Court of the
United States.
The New York Times recently recognized
Black Lives Matter as the largest, most di-
verse civil and human rights movement in
the history of both our country and the
world. We cannot stand back nor stand by as
partisan political games threaten irreparable
harm to the last branch of government
where Black Americans can turn for protec-
tion and justice.
As imperfect as our American judicial sys-
tem has been, it has traditionally had at
least the veneer of an avenue for recourse for
marginalized groups. This political hijacking
of the nominating process to the highest
court in the land goes against the purpose
and intent of the Constitution you are sworn
to uphold.
The U.S. Supreme Court has always been
crucial to the progress of African Americans.
Our rights to fully participate in democracy
and in every facet of social and economic
life, on an equal basis, lie in the balance.
From Brown v. Board of Education to Shelby
County v. Holder, we have seen the power of
the Supreme Court to both advance and un-
dermine civil rights and equal justice under
law. Each year, the Court decides critical
cases involving voting rights, equal edu-
cational opportunity, fair employment, fair
housing, women’s rights, access to
healthcare, immigration, consumer rights,
environmental justice, and criminal justice.
These decisions directly impact our lives,
our families, and our communities for gen-
erations.
Placing someone like Barrett who has a
record of flagrant disregard for established
precedent, especially on issues related to
race, on the Court is dangerous for
marginalized people. Smith v. Illinois De-
partment of Transportation, is only one ex-
ample of her dangerous jurisprudence. In the
aforementioned case, Barrett ruled that
being called the n-word by a supervisor does
not constitute a hostile work environment.
So extreme is this ruling, that it places Bar-
rett to the right of Justice Kavanaugh, who
in 2013 wrote that a single use of this epithet
‘‘suffices by itself to establish a racially hos-
tile work environment.’’ The means by
which Judge Barrett reached this extraor-
dinary conclusion, by relying on grounds
that neither the trial court nor either party
had raised, reveals the jurisprudential gym-
nastics to which she was willing to undergo
in order to reach this disturbing conclusion.
The nomination of Amy Coney Barrett in
the middle of a presidential election poses a
grave threat to the integrity and legitimacy
of the bastion of the Judicial Branch of gov-
ernment. Justice Ginsburg passed away on
September 17. Thirteen days after, voting
began. At least 31.4 million people have al-
ready voted for President and for their Sen-
ators in this election, both through early
voting and voting by mail. Their voices must
be heard and honored.
Black Lives Matter wants a Supreme Court
that works for all of us. We will fight for
that Court. Corporate interests like insur-
ance companies, drug companies, and the
gun industry have worked for years to pack
the courts to ensure that they work for
them, not for the rest of us. To have courts
that protect equal justice for everyone, we
need a nominee who will fight against these
corporations and protect the rights of every-
day working people. We need a Justice who
won’t pick and choose whose rights to de-
fend, but one who will work to protect equal
justice for all. Amy Coney Barrett is not
that nominee. She will not be that Justice.
Our rights and the future of our democracy
is at stake. Because Amy Coney Barrett puts
the wealthy and powerful first, the Court
will continue making decisions that deny
Americans’ voting rights, put corporations
ahead of people, refuse to recognize and re-
mediate discrimination, and limit access to
health care.
Black Lives Matter must also note that
Amy Coney Barrett currently occupies a ju-
dicial seat meant for a Black woman. She as-
cended over Black women with greater quali-
fications and more professional experience.
In 2017, Donald Trump appointed Barrett to
an Indiana seat in the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit, which covers Indi-
ana, Illinois, and Wisconsin. This is the same
seat to which President Obama nominated
Myra Selby, a Black woman, in 2016. But Re-
publican Senators blocked Myra Selby’s con-
firmation and saved the seat for Donald
Trump. After Trump was elected, the Sev-
enth Circuit lost its only judge of color to re-
tirement. In total, Trump had four vacancies
to fill on this circuit. Instead of nominating
a person of color to restore diversity to the
court, Trump appointed four white judges,
including Amy Barrett, making the Seventh
Circuit the only all white federal appellate
court in the country.
The judicial oath for the Supreme Court
states ‘‘I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
will administer justice without respect to
persons, and do equal right to the poor and
to the rich, and that I will faithfully and im-
partially discharge and perform all the du-
ties incumbent upon me’’. Judge Barrett has
failed to show she is capable of holding true
to those principles. We take her at her
opined word and believe she is who she has
shown us to be.
For these reasons, Black Lives Matter
strongly opposes the nomination of Judge
Barrett to the Supreme Court. Thank you
for your consideration of our position.
Respectfully,
PATRISSE CULLERS,
Co-Founder and Exec-
utive Director, Black
Lives Matter Global
Network Founda-
tion, Inc.
Mr. BOOKER. So I appeal, again, one
last time to the conscience of the Sen-
ate. This is not a time to proceed. This
is a time for grace. It is not a time to
proceed. It is a time to firm up the
foundations of our Republic. It is not a
time to proceed. It is a time to listen
to the American people. It is a time to
listen to the voters lined up now. It is
a time to listen and wait.
I know there are a lot of Americans
who are concerned right now, not with
the one nominee but with how this
process has gone. It is a process that is
eroding people’s trust and their faith in
the institution. They don’t see fairness
in this. They look at the own words of
Republican Senators and don’t under-
stand how hypocrisy like that can
stand—one standard for one President,
another standard for another.
But I want to tell everyone who is
hurting right now, everyone who is
worried about our Republic, everyone
who is concerned in this moment about
their healthcare and their voting
rights and their Nation that this is not
a time to give up. There will be dif-
ficult days ahead, but it is not a time
to give up.
We know that healthcare is at risk,
but it is not a time to give up. We
know that women controlling their
own bodies, sacrosanct as that idea is
and as under threat as it now is—it is
not a time to give up. LGBTQ rights
are under threat, but it is not a time to
give up. We cannot give up in the cause
of our country. It is not a right cause
or a left cause. It is a right and wrong
cause.
We can be a nation that builds for
posterity a functioning republic that
can elevate the best of human ideals
like grace. We cannot give up in this
moment. We cannot meet darkness
with darkness. We cannot surrender to
cynicism about our systems. We have
to keep pressing forward.
I still believe that our Nation’s his-
tory, as speckled as it is with wretch-
edness and pain, is still a story that is
a testimony to the overcoming of in-
justice and the better securing of it. I
still believe that we do live in a nation
where the truth does prevail in the end.
I still believe that even when wrongs
are done, they can be righted. I still be-
lieve that though this may become,
today, a moment of shame, we can re-
claim in this Nation the ideals of our
Founders—those testimonies to grace,
the commitment to each other of their
sacred honor—that we still can take a
body politic, wounded and injured, and
in our country find healing, find re-
demption, and find grace.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The minority leader.
COMPOUND MOTION
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, as we
speak, over 60 million Americans have
voted. The Republican majority is ig-
noring—even laughing—at their wish-
es.
Despite what the American people
want and whom they will vote for, this
Republican majority is ramming this
nomination through only because they
can. Might makes right, in their view.
That is so wrong. That is so against the
American principle of democracy and
rule of law.
So I will move to adjourn so that we
consider this nomination after the
election that is now ongoing—not be-
fore it, not 8 days before it.
Therefore, Mr. President, I move to
adjourn and to then convene for pro
forma sessions only, with no business
being conducted, at 12 noon on the fol-
lowing dates and that, following each
pro forma session, the Senate adjourn
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.189 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6578 October 25, 2020
until the next pro forma session: Tues-
day, October 27; Friday, October 30;
Tuesday, November 3; Friday, Novem-
ber 6; further, that if there is an agree-
ment on legislation in relation to the
COVID pandemic, the Senate may con-
vene under the authority of S. Res. 296
of the 108th Congress; finally, that
when the Senate adjourns on Friday,
November 6, it next convene at 4:30
p.m., Monday, November 9, and that
following the prayer and pledge, the
morning hour be deemed expired, the
Journal of proceedings be approved to
date, the time for the two leaders be
reserved for their use later in the day,
and morning business be closed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. That mo-
tion would require unanimous consent
and is not in order.
Mr. SCHUMER. I appeal the ruling of
the Chair and ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The yeas and nays are ordered.
The question is, Shall the decision of
the Chair stand as the judgment of the
Senate?
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 53,
nays 46, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 223 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Loeffler
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—46
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Harris
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate sustains the decision of the Chair.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
NOMINATION OF AMY CONEY BARRETT
Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I ask the
question, as I have for several weeks
now: Why are we here? What I hear
from my constituents in Delaware, as I
heard earlier today at an event at
Westside Health: Why is this Senate in
session now in the midst of a nation-
wide pandemic, focusing on rushing
through a nominee for the U.S. Su-
preme Court rather than doing every-
thing we can to work across the aisle
to craft a solution to the problems, the
crises facing our Nation—tens of mil-
lions of Americans unemployed, hun-
dreds of thousands of businesses perma-
nently closed? There are schools all
over the country that are either not
yet open or are just barely open, and
thousands upon thousands of Ameri-
cans have died alone, in pain,
uncomforted by family and uncertain
of how they came to be in this place,
uncared-for by their country. There
have been 81⁄2 million infected and
220,000 or more who are dead.
We are in the middle of a tragic pan-
demic and a recession made worse by
our President’s bungled mishandling of
that pandemic, and instead of coming
together and providing the relief that
all of our States and all of our people
are calling for, we are doing this. We
are doing this. Instead, my Republican
colleagues are walking over a dan-
gerous precipice. They are doing some-
thing that was, according to Chairman
GRAHAM of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, unthinkable just 2 years ago.
In the last 10 days before a Presi-
dential election—in the last month be-
fore a Presidential election—they are
ramming through for a lifetime ap-
pointment to the Supreme Court Presi-
dent Trump’s nominee. This is a rushed
and partisan process in the midst of an
ongoing Presidential election. Why?
Why are we here, and why are they
doing this?
I have heard a lot of talk from my
colleagues on the Judiciary Committee
and here on the floor about Justices
and how they are not policymakers;
about how they are distinct from poli-
tics; about abstract methodological
terms and ideas like originalism and
textualism; about judges and Justices
as neutral arbiters whose decisions
couldn’t possibly be predictable.
But you don’t work this hard to con-
firm a Supreme Court Justice in the
middle of a pandemic while the major-
ity of American States is voting—tens
of millions have voted—and while elec-
tion day is just 8 days away and a third
of us are up for reelection because you
care most about abstract ideas or neu-
tral principles. You don’t go against
your own promise—your own promise—
after you have claimed, as a matter of
high principles, that Justices shouldn’t
be confirmed during Presidential elec-
tions and after you blocked a highly
qualified nominee for exactly that rea-
son—because you care most about neu-
tral arbiters and judicial methodology.
No. This race to fill this seat is about
power. It is about political power. It is
about knowing the American people
have turned against the President, es-
pecially because of his failed, flawed,
and ultimately disastrous response to
this pandemic. We are not turning the
corner as he declared just this week.
We have a record-high number of cases
in dozens of States, an outbreak uncon-
trolled, unmanaged, and leadership
that is uncaring.
My colleagues know the election is
upon us. Many are up for reelection.
So, when Justice Ginsburg tragically
passed away just a few weeks ago,
President Trump and my colleagues
saw one last opportunity—one last
chance—to decide the balance of the
Supreme Court not just for a year or a
term but for decades and to come and
entrench a hard-right majority, whose
views are far outside the American
mainstream.
As my Democratic colleagues and I
have been laying out in the Judiciary
Committee and in speeches here on this
floor, that hard-right turn will have
lasting, serious, significant, even dev-
astating consequences for the Amer-
ican people.
After digging into and studying
Judge Barrett’s record as a law pro-
fessor and as a judge—her writings, her
speeches, her opinions—I am convinced
that she will come to the Supreme
Court with both a deeply conservative,
originalist philosophy in the style of
Justice Scalia and a judicial activism
even further to the right that will put
at risk longstanding rights the Amer-
ican people hold dear in nearly every
aspect of our modern lives. Simply put,
Judge Barrett as Justice Barrett, I am
convinced, will open a new chapter of
conservative judicial activism unlike
anything we have seen.
Why would I think this?
First, Judge Barrett was handpicked
by President Trump after he made
clear he wanted a new Justice to over-
turn the Affordable Care Act, with
there being potentially catastrophic
consequences for a majority of Ameri-
cans protected by the ACA.
Everyone watching at home has
heard my colleagues say for the last
decade that their top priority was to
repeal the Affordable Care Act. All of
the Republican Senators on the com-
mittee talked publicly, repeatedly,
about their desires to get rid of the
law, and they voted that way. So did
our President. Yet, despite their best
efforts, he and my Republican col-
leagues failed to get the vote here on
the floor of the U.S. Senate. So now
they are taking their last and best shot
at overturning the ACA, and they are
trying to do it through the Supreme
Court.
This is where Judge Barrett comes
in. As she admitted during my ques-
tioning, Judge Barrett has written in
no uncertain terms that she thinks
Chief Justice Roberts got it wrong in
his ruling 8 years ago that upheld the
ACA against a constitutional chal-
lenge. She wrote this article just 3
years ago, in 2017. Soon thereafter, she
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.413 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6579
October 25, 2020
found herself on President Trump’s
short list for the Supreme Court.
Meanwhile, the Justice Department,
under President Trump’s leadership,
has joined the challenge to the ACA,
which is now back in front of the Su-
preme Court. That will be heard by the
Court just 1 week from the election and
2 weeks from tomorrow. President
Trump and his administration are ar-
guing in no uncertain terms that the
Court must get rid of the entire ACA.
My Republican colleagues have said
this is fearmongering in that this is a
different case and a different issue, but
to anyone who thinks the characteriza-
tion of this challenge is farfetched, just
read the brief. Read the brief that has
been filed by the Solicitor General of
the United States or the brief that has
been signed and cosigned by 18 Repub-
lican State attorneys general.
President Trump himself lashed out
at Chief Justice Roberts over and over
again for upholding the Affordable Care
Act and its protections for a majority
of Americans, and he pledged as Can-
didate Trump that his nominees would
do the right thing and overturn the
law. So here, in the last minute of the
last act of the Trump show, he may at
long last have his chance.
Yet it isn’t just the Affordable Care
Act that is on President Trump’s Su-
preme Court agenda. He made clear he
wants a nominee to do three things:
overturn the ACA, overturn Roe v.
Wade, and perhaps most chillingly for
the future of our democracy, hand him
the election if there is a dispute in the
courts that makes its way to the Su-
preme Court.
On that second point about over-
turning Roe, Judge Barrett steadfastly
refused to say whether she thought Roe
had been correctly decided, because it
is the subject of legislation and litiga-
tion that is currently being contested.
She refused to say, as well, whether the
foundational case of Griswold v. Con-
necticut was right, which was decided
55 years ago and protects the right to
privacy and the right to use contracep-
tives by a married family in the pri-
vacy of their own home.
In the recent past, even indisputably
conservative nominees—nominees cho-
sen by Republican Presidents, such as
Chief Justice Roberts and Justices
Alito and Kavanaugh—have said that
of course Griswold was rightly decided
and is settled precedent. So I found
Judge Barrett’s hesitation—even re-
fusal—to say so to be chilling.
More broadly—and this is impor-
tant—Judge Barrett’s approach to
precedent itself suggests she will lead
the way in reversing longstanding
cases upon which our rights rely.
Precedent has been called the founda-
tion stone of law. Precedent protects
the rights and freedoms that many
Americans rely on today—the right to
be safe in your home from government
intrusion, the right to marry whom-
ever you love, the right to control your
own body.
Yet I have come away convinced that
Judge Barrett, if confirmed to the
Court, would be even more willing than
Justice Scalia to overturn those prece-
dents with which she disagrees. This is
rooted in things that she has written
and said as a law professor and as a
judge. She has made clear that judges
and Justices should feel free to over-
turn cases they believe have been
wrongly decided regardless of how
many people have ordered their lives
around those decisions and have come
to rely on them. She even said that
those with her conservative, originalist
philosophy have abandoned a commit-
ment to judicial restraint.
As I made clear in my questioning,
the cases that could be in jeopardy
with a Justice Barrett on the Supreme
Court cover a vast range of issues,
issues which together affect hundreds
of millions Americans’ lives from
healthcare to education, to consumer
protection, to marriage equality, to
criminal Justice. Over the past several
decades, the Supreme Court has de-
cided more than 120 cases by a 5-to-4
margin, with Justice Ginsburg in the
majority and Justice Scalia in the dis-
sent.
Just as a matter of analysis to help
folks see the scope and the reach and
the consequences of the decision being
made here tonight, we look at what
would happen if Justice Ginsburg in
the majority were replaced by some-
body with Justice Scalia’s philosophy
or with one further right.
These cases include not only the key
ruling on the Affordable Care Act—
NFIB v. Sebelius—but also on
Obergefell v. Hodges, which, based on
that privacy jurisprudence that started
all the way back in Griswold, upheld
the idea that marriage equality was
the rule of the land; on Grutter v.
Bollinger, which upheld race conscious
admission policies at universities; on
Tennessee v. Lane, which held that
State governments must comply with
the Americans with Disabilities Act;
on Arizona State Legislature v. Ari-
zona Independent Redistricting Com-
mission, which upheld the constitu-
tionality of nonpartisan redistricting;
on Massachusetts v. EPA, which allows
the EPA to regulate greenhouse gases;
and on Roper v. Simmons, which pro-
hibits executing people for crimes they
committed while they were children.
Think about the scope and reach of
the cases that touch labor rights to Na-
tive American rights and consumer
rights to environmental protection.
Yes, our comments on the floor and in
committee focused on the Affordable
Care Act, and they focused on repro-
ductive rights and privacy, but the
scope and reach of the consequences
are breathtaking. Even to this day, I
fear that we as a nation have not fully
reckoned with the impact that a 6-to-3
conservative Court will have on so
many aspects of our lives.
As to President Trump’s third de-
mand that a Justice chosen by him will
help to decide the election, I was deep-
ly dismayed to hear Judge Barrett
refuse to commit to recusing herself
from any case involving an election
dispute. President Trump is the reason
I ask that question.
President Trump himself is actively
undermining the integrity of our elec-
tion. He is spreading baseless rumors
about voter fraud, encouraging voter
suppression, and engaging in a
disinformation campaign so egregious
it is hard to believe it could be coming
from an American, let alone an Amer-
ican President.
His statements have been so indefen-
sible that, when my colleagues asked
Judge Barrett whether the President
should commit to conducting a peace-
ful transition of power if he loses the
election—a question that is an obvious
no-brainer and a matter of basic
civics—Judge Barrett said she couldn’t
respond because President Trump’s
statements have turned this funda-
mental tenet of our democracy into a
partisan, political question.
Before now, to my knowledge, no
President has ever demanded that his
nominee to a Supreme Court seat be
rushed through so that this Justice,
that ninth Justice, could look at the
ballots, as he has said, and hand him
an election. Never in our history has
the U.S. Senate confirmed a Supreme
Court Justice in circumstances like
these—just 8 days before the final elec-
tion day in an ongoing Presidential
election.
At the very, very least, given Presi-
dent Trump’s unprecedented over-
reaching, inappropriate comments
about the election and her nomination,
I asked Judge Barrett if she would
recuse herself in the event of an elec-
tion dispute. To be clear, nothing is
stopping her from making that com-
mitment, and she would not do so.
Recent events have made it clear
that this issue is anything but hypo-
thetical. Just last week, the U.S. Su-
preme Court was divided 4 to 4 on a
question arising from Pennsylvania,
and it came to the brink of adopting a
novel—even radical—theory advanced
by the Republicans in Pennsylvania
that would empower the Supreme
Court to override a State supreme
court’s interpretation of its own State
laws and constitution in a way that
would disenfranchise thousands of vot-
ers.
A new Justice Barrett joining that
Court could well provide the fifth vote
in support of this outrageous theory,
which her mentor, Justice Scalia, ac-
cepted in Bush v. Gore. And to no one’s
surprise, the Pennsylvania Republican
Party is again preparing to file in the
Supreme Court a renewed claim.
In light of this conflict of interest, in
light of the appearance of bias, her in-
volvement in this case could have last-
ing, negative, devastating con-
sequences for the independence of the
Court and for our democracy. So I urge
my Republican colleagues to consider,
before voting to confirm tonight, the
very real impacts their actions will
have, not only on millions of our con-
stituents but on our democracy and
this institution itself.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.415 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6580 October 25, 2020
As for me, I will be voting no on the
confirmation of Judge Barrett to the
U.S. Supreme Court.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, that
was quite a speech from our friend
from Delaware. If I had to categorize
it, I would say this is really the Chick-
en Little argument: The sky is falling.
Amy Coney Barrett—this is the end of
civilization. This is the end of the
world as we know it.
The irony to me and, frankly, the hy-
pocrisy of the argument is that if the
shoe were on the other foot, Senator
SCHUMER, who has said everything is
on the table ‘‘if we win the majority’’—
Court packing, making DC, making
Puerto Rico States—they would some-
how show this superhuman self-re-
straint and not fill this seat.
This is entirely consistent with the
practice, given the fact that President
Trump’s first term doesn’t run out
until January 20 of next year. All of
the Senators elected are serving
through the end of this year, at least.
So it is somewhat entertaining but be-
side the point to suggest that this good
judge, this really extraordinarily de-
cent human being is part of some vast
conspiracy to subvert the Constitution
and overrule all these precedents that
the Senator from Delaware considers
sacrosanct.
Well, I am happy with the fact that
tonight the Senate is set to confirm an
exceptionally well-qualified nominee to
the Supreme Court. Judge Amy Coney
Barrett is as impressive as they come.
America saw it. Initially they didn’t
know her, but when they came to know
her through her testimony on the Judi-
ciary Committee, she became very pop-
ular. In my State, 59 percent of the
people in a recent poll said they want-
ed us to confirm Judge Barrett now be-
fore the election—59 percent.
It is no wonder why. She graduated
first in her class from Notre Dame Law
School. She clerked for the District of
Columbia Court of Appeals and on the
Supreme Court and practiced law be-
fore transitioning to academia, where
she has written and taught constitu-
tional law, Federal courts, and statu-
tory interpretation for nearly two dec-
ades. And, of course, for the last 3
years, she has served with distinction
on the Seventh Circuit Court of Ap-
peals.
Her time in both the classroom and
the courtroom have given her under-
standing of the law that few can rival.
Over her confirmation hearing, she
skillfully answered questions about
legal doctrine, constitutional issues,
and a myriad of precedents without so
much as having a page of notes in front
of her.
As impressive as Judge Barrett’s
deep knowledge of the law is, it is only
part of what I believe makes her an
ideal candidate for the Supreme Court.
Now, more than ever, the judiciary,
along with our other elected officials,
tends to function not by what the law
says but through a lens of personal and
political bias. It is polarizing. We know
that people are highly agitated, includ-
ing my friend from Delaware, and try-
ing to stoke the turnout of their par-
tisans in the runup to the election. It
should go without saying—but I will
say it anyway—that judges don’t do
that. They can’t do that and still be
judges.
In order for the High Court to serve
the proper role under our Constitution,
it has to be made up of men and women
of great integrity, restraint, and self-
discipline, who will discharge their du-
ties on the Bench free from bias, which
means you don’t announce the decision
in a case before you have even heard it.
You don’t offer predictions or promises
of how you will decide these conten-
tious matters, which I know frustrates
our friend from Delaware and others,
but Judge Barrett has not only com-
mitted to doing this, not clouding her
decisions by personal or political moti-
vation or favor for any party; she has a
record to back it up.
During her time on the Seventh Cir-
cuit, she has joined with her colleagues
in 95 percent of the 600 cases she has
decided—95 percent consensus on a
three-judge panel. That is no record of
an outlaw or a radical or somebody
who is going to disregard their judicial
oath. She has consistently shown in
each of these decisions a fidelity to the
law and an impartiality, which are es-
sential qualities for a Supreme Court
Justice.
But despite the judge’s unassailable
qualifications, our Democratic col-
leagues have repeatedly tried and
failed to make this nominee out to be
a radical, suggesting that she would
violate her oath—the same oath to up-
hold and defend the Constitution that
we take as Senators. But there is noth-
ing in her background or her character
which would suggest she would do
something so brazen and so wrong.
Some folks on the left have attacked
her because of her Catholic faith. They
have also tried to convince the Amer-
ican people she is on some sort of cru-
sade to take healthcare away from
American families—How ridiculous is
that?—or that she would slowly chip
away at our freedoms and our liberties.
The reason we have seen such
hysterical attacks that are completely
out of touch with reality is that this is
all they have. They have nothing else.
There is no legitimate reason to op-
pose the nomination of Judge Barrett.
Her stellar credentials and deliberate
body of work prove that she under-
stands the role of a judge—as impor-
tant as it is but as limited as it is
under our constitutional system—and I
think that is part of what terrifies our
colleagues on the other side of the
aisle.
You see, they have become accus-
tomed to a Supreme Court that is more
political than judicial, that feels free
to make policy judgments to bail out
the Congress or those who have either
lost the vote or lost an election. That
is why our Democratic colleagues have
repeatedly pressed her to commit to an
outcome in cases before the Court. She
won’t do it, and she shouldn’t do it, and
she didn’t do it.
They asked her everything from
healthcare to abortion to climate
change. They want to know right
now—before she is even on the Court,
before she has even heard the case—
how she would rule.
Well, Judge Barrett rightly declined.
She invoked what is known as the
Ginsburg rule from the 1993 confirma-
tion hearing—presided over by Joe
Biden when he was chairman of the Ju-
diciary Committee—of Ruth Bader
Ginsburg. Ruth Bader Ginsburg had
been a lawyer with the American Civil
Liberties Union and had been known
for her pioneering work on behalf of
women’s rights, but she held some per-
sonally pretty radical views. So the
Senators, out of curiosity if nothing
else, wanted to ask her about those,
and she declined, as she should have,
because she said: It is inappropriate to
make predictions or provide hints of
how I might decide cases in the future.
This is the most basic principle of
our judicial system. Judges are not leg-
islators. They shouldn’t advocate for
policy outcomes or promote a specific
agenda. They certainly shouldn’t com-
mit to an outcome on a hypothetical
case during the confirmation process.
How would you feel if the judge you
came before had previously said: Well,
if I hear a case like that, I am going to
decide against this litigant, this party
for the lawsuit. That would be out-
rageous, and she shouldn’t and didn’t
do that. Neither did Justice Ginsburg.
Chief Justice Roberts reminded us
last year: ‘‘We do not have Obama
judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or
Clinton judges.’’ And I agree that is the
ideal.
Men and women in black robes can’t
stick their thumbs on the scales of jus-
tice and supply wins to any cause, any
individual, or any party. It is antithet-
ical to our constitutional system.
So I hope this process will help begin
a way to guide our courts back to their
proper function in our Constitution
and to remind all of us of what has
rightly been called the crown jewels of
our Constitution, and that is an inde-
pendent judiciary—judges whose pay
can’t be cut during their tenure in of-
fice, and they serve for life if they want
to. That is the ultimate in political
independence. Those are the crown jew-
els because judges apply the law that
Congress writes, interpret the prece-
dents of other courts, and interpret the
Constitution. To give an unelected in-
dividual the power to make policy and
to have an agenda to accomplish their
personal or political goals would be the
opposite of what our Constitution com-
prehends.
There is no question that Judge Bar-
rett has a brilliant legal mind, a deep
respect for the Constitution, and an
unwavering commitment to the rule of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.417 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6581
October 25, 2020
law. Her resume and her record are
spotless.
How do I know that? Well, if it
wasn’t, you would have heard about it.
It is spotless. Her character is beyond
reproach, and virtually everyone who
has worked with or learned from Judge
Barrett has offered their full-throated
endorsement of her nomination. All the
evidence—all the evidence—points to
one simple fact: Amy Coney Barrett is
exceptionally qualified to serve on the
Supreme Court. I have faith in Judge
Barrett’s ability to fairly interpret the
law and apply it to cases before her—
nothing more and nothing less.
I believe Amy Coney Barrett will be
an outstanding Supreme Court Justice,
and I am proud to support her nomina-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, we are
faced with three basic questions, and
the first question couldn’t be more
basic: Why are we here?
If you told the American people that
the U.S. Senate was in session 5 days in
a row and meeting through the week-
end and asked them what they think
the order of business was before the
Senate, they would say: Silly question.
It is obvious. It has to be the pandemic
facing America. It has to be the fact
that 225,150 Americans have died from
the coronavirus, 8.7 million infected,
and most certainly because the United
States has recorded more than 85,000
COVID–19 cases just this last Friday,
the highest number of cases recorded
within a 24-hour period since the begin-
ning of the pandemic and Saturday was
the same.
So they would guess that the Senate
was in session to do something about
this deadly epidemic that is affecting
the United States of America in a more
serious way than any country in the
world. They would wonder what we are
doing to try to provide more testing,
more protection for people. They cer-
tainly would question the statement by
the Chief of Staff of the President of
the United States, Mark Meadows, who
said just yesterday that the Trump ad-
ministration ‘‘is not going to control
the pandemic.’’ It would trouble them,
I am sure.
They would expect this Congress rep-
resenting them—up for reelection,
many of us—to be responsive to their
needs to protect their families or they
might ask us: Are you doing anything
to help the people, the 23 million un-
employed in America? Certainly, you
must be working on that, too, because
these families were cut off from their
Federal unemployment supplemental
on July 31. So for the months of August
and September and now into October,
the amount of money coming in to
keep their homes together, their fami-
lies together has been dramatically di-
minished.
If they assumed that, they are wrong,
because for the last 5 days here in the
U.S. Senate we have not been con-
sumed with those life-and-death issues
of this pandemic at all. Instead we are
consumed with a political mission.
How did we reach this point where we
are taking up this Supreme Court nom-
ination in the midst of a Presidential
election for the first time in the his-
tory of the United States, in the midst
of an election we are taking this up?
Well, because of the determination of
the Republican majority leader of the
Senate, Senator MCCONNELL of Ken-
tucky.
Four years ago, you will remember
the Antonin Scalia vacancy. President
Obama decided that he was still Presi-
dent of the United States in the 8th
year of his Presidency, but Senator
MCCONNELL said: No, you are not. You
do not have the Presidential authority
to fill a Supreme Court vacancy be-
cause it is the last year of your Presi-
dency. You are a lameduck. There is an
election coming. Let the American
people decide who will fill this va-
cancy. That was the McConnell rule 4
years ago, and the Republican Senators
marched in lockstep behind him with
his logic.
Fast forward 4 years, the vacancy
with the death of Ruth Bader Ginsburg
and Senator MCCONNELL has changed
his story completely and his troops are
still marching obediently behind him.
Now, under President Trump, he can
fill a vacancy even in the midst of a
Presidential election, and that is why
we are here today. This determination
by Senator MCCONNELL that this polit-
ical errand that he is running for Presi-
dent Trump is more important than
the COVID–19 pandemic, more impor-
tant than the runaway infection rates
in 20 States across the United States,
more important than trying to deal
with the unemployment and the dys-
functions of this economy under this
President.
Yes, we asked basic questions to be
answered by the Judiciary Com-
mittee—questions that were posed to
Amy Coney Barrett, once a law school
professor at Notre Dame Law School,
now on the Seventh Circuit Court of
Appeals.
People say: Is she qualified? Well, if
you are asking whether she is studied
in the law and has a head full of law,
there is no question about it. It has
been many years since I faced a law
school professor, and I will give it to
you that she certainly knows a lot
about the law. There is no doubt about
it. But the questions that I asked of
her really went beyond that basic ques-
tion. I really wanted to know what was
not just in her head when it came to
the law but I want to know what she
has in her heart when it comes to the
law.
One of the Senators who spoke to us
a few minutes ago chided us because we
kept bringing color photographs to the
floor and to the committee hearings of
people whose lives depended on the Af-
fordable Care Act. He characterized it
as ‘‘theater’’ and likened these images,
these photographs, to cutouts at sport-
ing events.
Well, let me tell you the ones that I
presented from Illinois represent real-
life stories of real-life families who de-
pend on the Affordable Care Act. Why
do we raise the Affordable Care Act in
the midst of this hearing for filling this
Supreme Court vacancy? For one sim-
ple reason—that is what the President
did. It was the President who told us
far in advance: I am going to fill Su-
preme Court vacancies to eliminate the
Affordable Care Act. So is this a leap of
faith on our part to take the President
at his word? Would the President even
consider lying to the American people?
If you take him at his word, then
Amy Coney Barrett is part of an agen-
da—a political agenda to eliminate the
Affordable Care Act. And in the past
the President has said Roe v. Wade
while you are at it and also to move
forward when it comes to protecting
him if there is an election contest after
the November 3 election. He said as
much. As I mentioned earlier, he
doesn’t have an unuttered thought. He
tweets it 25 times a day, whatever
crosses his fertile mind, and that is his
agenda when it comes to filling the Su-
preme Court vacancy. When we asked
Judge Barrett, she denies any promises
have been made. But there is some evi-
dence, obviously, along the way that
convinced the President and the people
in the White House that she would ful-
fill his mission if she came to the Su-
preme Court.
When you look at the issues involved,
it is not just her compassion when it
comes to the Affordable Care Act and
23 million Americans covered by insur-
ance under that law, 600,000 of them in
Illinois. It is not just a question of her
courage to stand up to this President if
there is an election-year contest that
comes before the Supreme Court. It is
really whether she is committed to pre-
serving the pillars of modern law—the
rights of women. Ruth Bader Gins-
burg’s death created this vacancy.
There is hardly a person in our modern
history who spent more of her life dedi-
cated to the rights of women. Is Amy
Coney Barrett going to follow in that
tradition? I think it is a legitimate
question.
When it came to racism, are we going
to deal with racism in an honest way?
And I will get to that in a moment
when I speak to her originalism moti-
vation.
Marriage equality, privacy, voting—
all these issues are on the table. And I
do have to disagree with my colleague
from Texas who preceded me. I just
don’t believe the law is robotic, nor do
I believe that there is a simple formula
to use that can guarantee an outcome
of a case. As I said to Judge Barrett in
our private conversation before the
hearing, there wouldn’t be 5-to-4 cases
if we could count on people to always
look at the facts and the law and come
to the same conclusion. People reach
different conclusions.
That takes me to the third point
here. We asked Amy Coney Barrett
during the course of this hearing so
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.418 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6582 October 25, 2020
many questions about basic, basic law
that went right to the heart of this
Constitution. These weren’t trick ques-
tions. They weren’t the subject of
pending litigation or litigation. Ques-
tions like, Can this President or any
President unilaterally decide to change
the date of a Presidential election?
That is pretty basic. I think it is cov-
ered by three different sections in this
Constitution. She refused to answer be-
cause of the possibility that there
would be litigation before the Court on
that subject.
Well, what about intimidation
against voters, trying to cast their
votes in an election? Couldn’t answer
that one either—same reason.
This was asked by Senator KENNEDY,
a Republican from Louisiana: What
about climate change? Well, it turns
out Judge Barrett told us she really
hadn’t developed any thoughts on cli-
mate change. Really? Forty-eight
years old, lawyer, law school professor,
mother of seven—no thoughts on cli-
mate change?
When it was all over, you had to ask
yourself, what was the purpose of that
hearing if those were the kinds of an-
swers we faced? Certainly, we wouldn’t
ask her about pending litigation.
But the one thing that she was very
proud of and stated over and over again
is that she was an originalist when it
came to her thinking on the law and
the Constitution. As I said, originalism
is not some foreign language you pick
up on Babbel. It is a mindset. It is a
mission statement. It is the belief that
the original text in our Constitution
reveals all the answers. I doubt that
very much. That is kind of MAGA ju-
risprudence—‘‘take us back to the good
old days’’ jurisprudence because, you
see, what really launched originalism
occurred in the 1950s in a case called
Brown v. Board of Education. The
Southern States were not ready for in-
tegration, and many of the Northern
States weren’t either, for that matter.
The critics of that Supreme Court deci-
sion said it was judicial activism to in-
tegrate the public schools of America.
They were critical of a Court that they
thought went too far under Earl War-
ren. They called for his impeachment
and more and started saying: You
should have stuck with the original
Constitution. Well, the original Con-
stitution didn’t give African Americans
the right to vote; in fact, considered
them under the law to be three-fifths of
an American citizen. So those so-called
originalists criticized that activist
Court, and it didn’t end with Brown v.
Board of Education.
The same criticism was launched
when it came to Griswold v. Con-
necticut, a case that really argued that
we have a right of privacy in our mar-
ried lives that can’t be overcome by
the State; Loving v. Virginia, that
interracial marriage was permissible;
and then, of course, the case of Roe v.
Wade, the ultimate case when it came
to privacy and liberty.
So those who come before us and tell
us that what is really at stake here is
restraint on the Court, self-discipline
on the Court—we have heard all those
words—and making sure that Justices
don’t pursue policy, think about all of
those things in terms of what happened
in Brown v. Board of Education and
when they overruled Plessy v. Fer-
guson decades before, and said: Moving
forward, we believe this Constitution
guarantees to every child the right to
an education, regardless of their race.
Dr. Chemerinsky is with the Univer-
sity of California School of Law in
Berkeley. He wrote a recent article in
the New York Times on this
originalism theory. And he noted the
fact that it was Antonin Scalia who
gave it great popularity, and a lot of
people followed Scalia because he was
cerebral, jocular, and fun to be with.
He spoke to a luncheon of Democratic
Senators that I was able to attend. But
when it came down to it, his views on
the law were pretty strict and pretty
rigid pursuing this idea that, for exam-
ple, under this view, the First Amend-
ment means the same thing as when it
was adopted in 1791; the Fourteenth
Amendment means the same thing as
it was ratified in 1868. It turns out that
the circumstances in all those cases
have changed so dramatically in Amer-
ica.
Judge Amy Coney Barrett argued she
is an originalist. She would be joining
that other originalist on the Court,
Clarence Thomas, with her legal think-
ing, and that gives me pause and con-
cern when it comes to what she is
bringing to the Court—a head full of
law, for sure, but an approach to it
that I think is a pose. It is a way to
argue against change and evolution in
America that is inevitable and, in fact,
necessary.
The professor says under the original
public meaning of the Constitution, it
would be unconstitutional to elect a
woman as President or Vice President
until the Constitution is amended be-
cause article II refers to the pronoun
‘‘he.’’ When you get stuck with the lan-
guage in the original Constitution in
the extreme, you find yourself reaching
conclusions that are not in the best in-
terest or consistent with American
mores or values today.
So this is more than just another
nomination to fill a vacancy on the Su-
preme Court. It comes at a moment in
time when we should be focusing on the
deadly pandemic facing America. We
should have spent 5 straight days com-
ing up with a COVID relief bill for the
millions of Americans desperate for
help today and desperate for peace of
mind when it comes to this public
health tragedy which we are facing.
It is a nomination which comes be-
fore us when the rules of Senate and
the rules of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee are being twisted and turned to
create a political opportunity for Sen-
ator MCCONNELL and his side of the
aisle. Sadly, it is a moment in time
when a nominee for the Supreme Court
wants to bring to us a legal way of
thinking which I believe is inconsistent
with progress in this country when it
comes to human rights and civil rights.
Under originalist theory, we may
never have had Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation and the other cases I mentioned.
What a loss for this great Nation. That
is not what we need on the Court. We
need people on the Court who are real-
ists and who will look at the law and
the Constitution in real terms and not
ideological terms.
The notion that this Justice is being
hurried before us in the hopes that she
will eliminate the Affordable Care Act
in the midst of a pandemic certainly is
worth noting. It is one of the reasons—
one of many of reasons—that I will be
voting no on Amy Coney Barrett with
her nomination to the Supreme Court.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). The Senator from South Caro-
lina.
Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, as
chairman of the Judiciary Committee,
it is my honor to speak on the floor
about this nomination, which I think is
historic in many facets and all positive
from my point of view.
We have before the committee the
nomination of Judge Barrett, who cur-
rently sits on the Seventh Judicial Cir-
cuit. She is one of the most impressive
people I have ever met. Two days of
hearings; answering every question
thrown to her with grace and judicial
demeanor. I think it should be the gold
standard for every other nominee.
I want to thank my staff, beginning
with Lee Holmes, the director. Lee has
done such a great job on the Judiciary
Committee and has done a lot of
things—some contentious and some
not. I want to thank Lee for shep-
herding this nomination and the fine
work he has done.
Mike Fragoso—Mike, I got your first
name right anyway. He is just out-
standing. He has done a terrific job.
The permanent nominations unit for
the Judiciary Committee includes
Lauren Mehler, Raija Churchill, Tim
Rodriguez, Watson Horner, and Akhil
R-A-J-A-S-E-K-A-R—I don’t want to
butcher your name. They all worked
incredibly hard for 135 article III
judges, not just this one.
In addition, Lucas Croslow joined my
staff to lead the team of special coun-
sels assisting with the Barrett nomina-
tion. That included Sidd Dadhich, D-A-
D-H-I-C-H, Joe Falvey, Abby
Hollenstein, Eric Palmer, and Robert
Smith. They went through the entire
record presented by Judge Barrett to
make sure we would be prepared for the
confirmation process.
The law clerks were Matt Simpson,
Emily Hall, Megan Cairn, and Peter
Singhal. I would like to thank the Ju-
diciary Committee’s press secretary,
Taylor Reidy. They did a great job,
along with George Hartmann, as well
as our deputy staff director, Joe
Keeley.
The bottom line is, all of them
worked really hard. They made his-
tory. They should be proud and tell
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.420 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6583
October 25, 2020
their grandkids about all this. Well
done.
To my Democratic colleagues, I know
you didn’t like what we did, but I do
appreciate the way you conducted
yourselves in the hearing. It wasn’t a
circus. I think you challenged the
judge appropriately during your time.
We had 4 days of hearings. We heard
from a variety of people about Judge
Barrett.
In terms of the process, it was well
within what we have done in the past.
In every Judiciary Committee markup
regarding a Supreme Court Justice, we
have done the same thing. The first
day is opening statements, then 2 days
of questions, and the final day is input
from outside groups. That is what we
were able to do here. So she went
through the process like every other
nominee since I have been here.
But let me just say this to my Demo-
cratic colleagues. It is not about the
process. You will find ways to make
sure that most of you can’t vote for
anybody we nominate. It really does
break my heart.
With Roberts, 78 to 22, that was sort
of the norm. I think Alito got 96 and
Ginsburg got 97. Maybe I got the num-
bers right. I can’t remember who got
what, but one got 96 and one got 97. It
used to not be this way. It used to be
different.
We looked at the qualifications and
said: OK, you are good to go. You are a
person of integrity. You are smart. You
are well rounded. You are knowledge-
able in the law. You may have a dif-
ferent philosophy than I have, but we
understand elections matter. And ev-
erybody accepted the election out-
come. Those days are over, absolutely
completely over and destroyed. There
is nobody any Republican President
can ever nominate, I think, who is not
going to face a hard time. That is too
bad. That is the way it is.
Alito, 58 to 42—Judge Alito was well
known on our side of the aisle. He was
the kind of person you would be look-
ing at to promote to the Supreme
Court. President Bush nominated him.
Well within the mainstream. Roberts
and Alito were well known in the con-
servative world, being very bright
court of appeals judges whom any Re-
publican President would be looking at
to put on the Court if they ever had an
opportunity. There is no difference be-
tween Alito and Roberts, but Alito
went through hell. But he made it, and
he got 58 votes.
So then along comes President
Obama. He gets two picks—Sotomayor,
68 votes to 31. I think she deserved
more, but 68 is pretty darn good. I was
glad to vote for her. I saw that she was
qualified. Then we had Elena Kagan, 63
votes. You can see the trend here. Both
of them were Obama nominees, 68 and
63, and I thought Elena Kagan was
highly qualified. She had a different ju-
dicial philosophy. She was a dean of
the law school at Harvard but worked
for the Solicitor General’s Office. Both
of them had been with the liberal side
of the Court most every case but not
all. I am not surprised the way they de-
cided cases. I think they are tremen-
dously well-qualified women and
should be sitting on the Court. That is
exactly who you would expect a Demo-
cratic President to pick—Sotomayor
and Kagan.
So now we come back. Trump wins.
Nobody thought he would win, includ-
ing me. I voted for somebody in 2016 I
wouldn’t know if he walked through
the door—Evan McMullin. I think I
met him once. I had my challenge for
President Trump during the 2016 pri-
mary. He beat me like a drum. I ac-
cepted my defeat. I have been trying to
help him ever since, and I think he has
done a really good job of sending to the
Senate highly qualified judges. He has
gotten input from a lot of different
people—the Federalist Society, you
name it—a lot of different people.
Gorsuch and Kavanaugh had one
thing in common: They were in my top
three recommendations. Any Repub-
lican President looking to nominate
somebody to the Supreme Court would
be looking at Gorsuch and Kavanaugh.
These are not exotic picks. They are in
the mold of Sotomayor and Kagan in
terms of qualifications.
So what happened? Gorsuch was the
first attempt at a partisan filibuster.
We had three votes to get 60, and we
couldn’t, so we changed the rules for
the Supreme Court like they changed
the rules in 2013 for the district court
and court of appeals. If we had not,
Gorsuch wouldn’t be on the Court. And
to say he is not qualified is a joke. It
is an insult to him and says more about
you than it does Judge Gorsuch. If you
can’t see he is qualified, you are blind-
ed by your hatred of Trump. So he
made it, but we had to change the
rules. We hated to do it but had to do
it because in any other time, Gorsuch
would have gotten the same type votes
as Roberts because he is just highly
qualified.
Then comes along Kavanaugh. Noth-
ing about process there. There was no
process argument. Right at the very
end, the last day of the hearing when
we thought it was all over, you give us
a letter that you had for weeks, an al-
legation against the judge. It would
have been nice to share it with him so
he could tell his side of the story, but
you chose not to do that. You had it
precooked with the press outlets, and
everything blew up.
So all of us on the committee had to
decide what to do. I sat down with Sen-
ator Flake and Senator COLLINS, and
we felt like the allegations had to be
heard. They are made. I know a lot of
people on our side thought it was un-
fair, dirty pool, but we had the oppor-
tunity to have the hearing, and the
rest is history. It was high drama.
All I can say is that something hap-
pened to the person who accused Judge
Kavanaugh, but I don’t believe Judge
Kavanaugh had anything to do with it.
This was a party in high school. Ms.
Ford couldn’t remember where it was
and who was there. The people who
were said to have been there said they
don’t remember anything like it hap-
pened.
Judge Kavanaugh hasn’t lived a life
like what was being described. He was
accused by four or five people. Three of
them actually made it up. I hope some
of them go to jail for lying to the com-
mittee and the country. They were try-
ing to make him a rapist and drugging
women in high school, and what was
his annual all about? It was the most
sickening episode in my time in the
Senate. They were hell-bent on de-
stroying this guy’s life based on a
bunch of manufactured lies and evi-
dence that wouldn’t get you out of the
batter’s box in any court of law in the
land.
And here we are, 50 to 48. What I saw
there was a turning point for me. We
cannot continue to do this. You are
going to drive good people away. And I
am hoping that the Barrett hearings,
which were far more civil and far more
traditional, will be a turning point be-
cause I don’t know who the next Presi-
dent will be, but there will be an open-
ing, I am sure, on the Court. I am hop-
ing that the next hearing is more like
Barrett’s and less like Kavanaugh’s, no
matter who wins.
Now, Barrett. I understand the con-
cern about the process. This is the lat-
est we have ever confirmed somebody.
You heard all the arguments about
when the President is of one party and
the Senate of a different party; you
have had one confirmation in 100-some
years; that most of the time, when the
President is of the same party as the
Senate, they go through. I understand.
The bottom line is, we gave her the
same type hearing that Alito,
Sotomayor, Kagan, Gorsuch, and
Kavanaugh had. My Democratic col-
leagues showed up at the hearing, they
participated, they pushed her hard, but
I don’t think they went across the line.
They decided not to show up for mark-
up. I hate that, but that is the way it
is.
I would like to spend a few minutes
talking about the person who is going
onto the Court in about an hour.
If you are looking for somebody a Re-
publican would be picking, regardless
of the process, it would be Judge Bar-
rett. She would be on anybody’s list.
I listened to Senator DURBIN, who is
a good friend, and we will work on
whatever comes our way after the elec-
tion. I find that he is somebody you
can work on hard things like immigra-
tion with. But his description of Judge
Barrett simply doesn’t pass scrutiny.
He is trying to make a character of
this person that doesn’t exist. There is
nothing exotic about Judge Barrett.
She is very mainstream in our world.
All I can say is that after 2 days of
hearings, the American people, by 51
percent—it is pretty hard to figure
that in this country, you get 51 percent
agreement on anything—felt like she
should be going onto the Court.
Here is what Dean O’Hara said, the
dean of Notre Dame Law School, who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.421 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6584 October 25, 2020
hired Amy Barrett to be a professor at
Notre Dame:
I have only communicated with this au-
gust committee on two occasions. The first
was ten years ago when I wrote a strong let-
ter in support of now-Justice Elena Kagan,
whose term as dean of Harvard Law School
overlapped with my own. The second is today
introducing and endorsing Amy Coney Bar-
rett in equally strong terms. Some might
find these recommendations to be in jux-
taposition, but I find them entirely con-
sistent.
To anybody wondering about Judge
Barrett, I would highly recommend
that you look at the ABA’s rec-
ommendations and the process they
used to find her ‘‘well qualified.’’ Not
one person uttered a negative word
about her character, according to the
ABA. Someone said to the ABA: The
myth is real. She is a staggering aca-
demic mind. She is incredibly honest
and forthright. She is exactly who you
think she is. Nothing about her is fake.
She is good, she is decent, she is self-
less, and she is sincere. She is an exem-
plar of living an integrated life.
The Standing Committee would have
been hard-pressed to come up with any
conclusion other than that Judge Bar-
rett has demonstrated professional
competence that is exceptional. Then
they had a committee to look at her
writings—all of her writings. They ac-
cepted input from 944 people she has
interacted with in her professional life.
Not one negative comment.
So forget about what politicians say
about Judge Barrett. Forget about
what people who don’t recognize Presi-
dent Trump as being a legitimate
President say about Judge Barrett.
Forget about what I say if you want to.
Look at what people who worked with
her said, who are in the law business,
who know her individually and have
worked with her as a judge, as a pro-
fessor, and they conclude without any
doubt that she is one of the most gifted
people to ever be nominated to the Su-
preme Court.
There is nothing exotic about Judge
Barrett. She is going onto the Court in
about an hour. That is exactly where
she needs to be. She is the type of per-
son who has lived a life worthy of being
nominated. She is the type of person
who is worthy of receiving a large vote
in the Senate, but she won’t get it.
She is not going to get one Demo-
cratic vote. Write her out of the proc-
ess if you want to. That is fine. But
what about the others? All I can say is
that we are going to have an election
here in about a week, and whatever
happens, I am going to acknowledge
the winner when it is all said and done.
It may go to the Supreme Court. I
don’t know. But there will be a day
that we know who won, and I am going
to accept those results, and I am going
to do with the next President what I
have tried to do with this one and
every other one—try to find a way for-
ward on things that are hard to keep
the country moving forward.
To the majority leader and the mi-
nority leader, it is a tough place
around here now. This, too, shall pass.
But this is about Judge Barrett. This is
about her time, her moment. She has
done everything you would expect of
her. She has exceeded every challenge
put in her way. She has impressed ev-
erybody she has worked with. She has
impressed the country. She is going
onto the Court because that is where
she deserves to be.
As to us in the Senate, maybe down
the road we can get back to the way we
used to be. I don’t know. But I do know
this. There is nothing exotic about
Judge Barrett. She is as mainstream as
it gets from our side of the aisle.
When it comes to people outside of
politics looking at her, it was uni-
versal: ‘‘highly qualified,’’ ‘‘highly
competent,’’ ‘‘ready to serve this coun-
try as Associate Justice of the Su-
preme Court.’’
My last thought: It is hard to be a
conservative person of color. That is a
very difficult road to hoe in modern
American politics. My good friend TIM
SCOTT is a great voice for conserv-
atism. And TIM—a lot of things were
said about TIM that were said about no-
body else on our side of the aisle. He is
tough. He can handle it. The same for
conservative women.
Judge Barrett did not abandon her
faith. She embraces it. But she said: I
embrace my faith. But as a judge, it
will not be the rule of Amy. It will be
the rule of law. It will be the facts. It
will be the law and the outcome dic-
tated by the law, not by anything I per-
sonally believe.
I will say this. For the young, con-
servative women out there who are
pro-life and embrace your faith, there
is a seat at the table for you. This is
historic. This nomination is different.
This is a breakthrough for conservative
young women.
I was honored to be the chair of the
committee that reported out Judge
Barrett to the floor of the Senate, and
I am going to be honored to cast my
vote to put her on the Supreme Court,
exactly where she deserves to be.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mi-
nority leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, today,
Monday, October 26, 2020, will go down
as one of the darkest days in the 231-
year history of the U.S. Senate.
Let the record show that tonight the
Republican Senate majority decided to
thwart the will of the people and con-
firm a lifetime appointment to the Su-
preme Court in the middle of a Presi-
dential election, after more than 60
million Americans have voted.
Let the record show that tonight the
Republican majority will break 231
years of precedent and become the first
majority to confirm a Supreme Court
Justice this close to election day.
Let the record show that tonight the
Republican majority will make a
mockery of its own stated principle
that the American people deserve a
voice in the selection of Supreme Court
Justices, completing the partisan theft
of two seats on the Supreme Court
using completely contradictory ration-
ales.
And let the record show that the
American people—their lives and rights
and freedoms—will suffer the con-
sequences of this nomination for a gen-
eration.
This entire debate can be summed up
in three lies propagated by the Repub-
lican majority and one great terrible
truth. The first lie is that the Repub-
lican majority is being consistent in
following its own standard—what rub-
bish. After refusing a Democratic
nominee to the Supreme Court because
an election was 8 months away, they
will confirm a Republican nominee be-
fore an election that is 8 days away.
What is Leader MCCONNELL’s excuse?
He claims that the principle of not con-
firming Justices in Presidential years
only applies when there is divided gov-
ernment. But this is what Leader
MCCONNELL said after Justice Scalia
died: ‘‘The American people should
have a voice in the selection of their
next Supreme Court Justice.’’
That is all he said. He didn’t say that
the American people should have a
voice but only when there is divided
government. No, the last bit is ex post
facto.
If this were really about divided gov-
ernment all along, Republican Sen-
ators would not have promised on the
record to follow their own standard if
the situation was reversed. ‘‘I want you
to use my words against me,’’ said the
chairman of the Judiciary Committee.
‘‘If there is a Republican President in
2016 and a vacancy occurs in the last
year of the first term, you can say
LINDSEY GRAHAM said, let the next
president, whoever it might be, make
that nomination.’’
So the claim by the leader that this
is consistent with their own principle—
please. Rather than accept the con-
sequences of its own words and deeds,
the Republican majority is lighting its
credibility on fire.
This hypocritical, 180-degree turn, is
spectacularly obvious to the American
people.
The second lie is that the Republican
majority is justified because of Demo-
cratic actions on judicial nominations
in the past. The Republican leader
claims that his majority’s actions are
justified by all the bad things Demo-
crats did years ago. He claims that
every escalation of significance in judi-
cial debates was made by Democrats.
But in his tortured, convoluted history
lesson, Leader MCCONNELL left out a
whole bunch of chapters. He omitted
that Republicans bottled up more than
60 judicial nominees by President Clin-
ton, refusing them even a hearing.
He made no reference to the decision
by Republican Senators to hold open 14
appellate court seats in the 1990s so
that a Republican President could fill
them. Instead, a tactic Republicans
would revisit under President Obama,
when Republicans used partisan filibus-
ters to block his nominees to the DC
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.423 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6585
October 25, 2020
Circuit, at the time, Republican Sen-
ators, including my colleague from
Kentucky, amazingly accused Presi-
dent Obama of trying to pack the court
by the mere act of nominating judges
to vacancies of the Second Circuit.
What a hypocritical double standard,
which appears to be endemic in Leader
MCCONNELL’s recounting of history.
And on top of it all, the leader has
asked the Senate to play a blame game
that dates all the way back to 1987,
pointing to a 3-minute speech by Sen-
ator Kennedy about Robert Bork as the
original sin in the judicial wars. Seri-
ously, that is what he said. Because
one Democrat give one 3-minute speech
that Republicans didn’t like, Leader
MCCONNELL can steamroll the minority
to confirm a Justice in the middle of
an election.
Imagine trying to explain to some-
one: Sorry, I have to burn down your
house because of something one of your
friends said about one of my friends 33
years ago. That is how absurd and ob-
noxious this game has gotten. That is
how unjustifiable the majority’s ac-
tions are, how flimsy their excuses
have become.
The leader’s final argument boils
down to: But you started it—a declara-
tion you would sooner hear in the
schoolyard than on the floor of the
U.S. Senate.
The third and perhaps the greatest
lie is that the Republican majority is
confirming Judge Barrett solely on the
basis of her qualifications, not based on
her views on the issues. My colleagues
insist that Judge Barrett should be
confirmed on her credentials alone.
That is all they talk about. They don’t
talk about her views on the issues,
only qualifications. Well, this canard is
about as apparent as a glass door. Ev-
eryone can see right through it.
What is the real reason Republicans
are so desperate to rush Judge Barrett
onto the Supreme Court? Of course, it
is not because of her qualifications. If
my Republican friends truly believed
that the only thing that mattered
about a judicial candidate is their
qualifications, then Merrick Garland
would be sitting on the Supreme Court
right now.
If the Republican leader truly be-
lieved that judicial appointments were
about qualifications, and qualifications
alone, Judge Garland would be Justice
Garland right now.
Judge Garland was among the most
qualified candidates ever—ever—to be
nominated to the Supreme Court. No
Republican Senator has disputed that.
But they didn’t want Judge Garland on
the Bench. They do want Judge Bar-
rett. They subjected Judge Garland to
an unprecedented partisan blockade,
but they are erecting a monument to
hypocrisy to rush Judge Barrett on the
bench.
Why? It is not because she is more
qualified than Judge Garland was.
What is the difference between Barrett
and Garland? The difference is not
qualifications but views. We know
that. We all know that. Healthcare, a
woman’s rights, a woman’s right to
choose, gun safety—you name it. It is
not because the far right wants Judge
Barrett’s views on the Court, but it is
because the far right wants Judge
Barrett’s views on the Court but not
Judge Garland’s.
The truth is, this nomination is part
of a decades-long effort to tilt the judi-
ciary to the far right, to accomplish
through the courts what the radical
right and their allies—Senate Repub-
licans—could never accomplish
through Congress.
Senate Republicans failed to repeal
the Affordable Care Act, so President
Trump and Republican attorneys gen-
eral are suing to eliminate the law in
court.
Republicans would never dare to at-
tempt to repeal Roe v. Wade in Con-
gress. So they pass onerous laws in
State legislatures that they control to
drive that right to the point of near ex-
tinction and then provoke the Supreme
Court to review Roe v. Wade.
The far right has never held the ma-
jority on the court to limit Roe v.
Wade or Griswold, but if Judge Barrett
becomes Justice Barrett, it very well
might.
And if you are looking for some hard
numbers to prove that the political
right considers ideology and not just
qualifications, consider this. Under
Justice Roberts, there have been 80
cases—80—decided by a 5-to-4 majority,
in which the five Justices nominated
by Republican Presidents came down
one side and the four Justices nomi-
nated by Democratic Presidents came
down on the other. Eighty cases—ex-
actly the same majority—calling balls
and strikes. And in an amazing coinci-
dence, all the Republican-nominated
Justices think it is a strike and all the
Democratic ones think it is a ball, or
vice versa. It would be the most re-
markable coincidence in the history of
mathematics if nine Justices, simply
calling balls and strikes, exhibited the
same split in the exact same configura-
tion 80 times.
We all know what the game is here.
So stop pretending. Stop pretending
there aren’t entire organizations dedi-
cated to advancing far-right judges.
Stop pretending that the political right
doesn’t spend millions of dollars to
prop up the far-right Federalist Soci-
ety and support certain judicial can-
didates because they only want ‘‘quali-
fied’’ judges. No, they want to system-
atically and permanently tilt the
courts to the far right.
So does Judge Barrett have views on
legal issues? You bet she does. That
brings me to the one great and terrible
truth about this nomination. The
American people will suffer the con-
sequences of Judge Barrett’s far-right,
out-of-the-mainstream views for gen-
erations.
Judge Barrett came before the Judi-
ciary Committee and refused to answer
nearly any question of substance. That
is the new game at the hearings. She
would not answer questions about
healthcare. She would not say whether
voter intimidation is illegal. She would
not say if she thought Medicare and
Social Security were unconstitutional.
She could not even offer platitudes in
responses to questions about the peace-
ful transfer of power, and refused to
say if climate change was real.
It is not because Judge Barrett isn’t
allowed to answer these questions. It is
because she knows how unfavorable her
views on the issues might sound to the
American people.
But the thing is, we do know how
Judge Barrett thinks. She views cer-
tain rights, like the right to privacy,
through a pinhole. She was closely af-
filiated with organizations who advo-
cated the outright repeal of Roe v.
Wade.
But she views other rights, like the
right to keep and bear arms, as almost
infinitely expansive. She once authored
a dissent arguing the Federal Govern-
ment does not have the authority to
ban all felons—felons—from owning
guns.
Only a few hours ago, the Republican
Senator from Missouri proudly de-
clared from the Senate floor that
Judge Barrett is the most openly pro-
life judicial nominee to the Supreme
Court in his lifetime: ‘‘This is an indi-
vidual,’’ he said of Judge Barrett, ‘‘who
has been open in her criticism of that
illegitimate decision, Roe v. Wade.’’ He
was being more honest than most of
the talk around here, which says it is
only about qualifications.
Judge Barrett has proudly fashioned
herself in the mold of her mentor, Jus-
tice Scalia, who, before his death, ap-
peared set to declare union fees to be
unconstitutional, driving a stake into
the heart of the American labor move-
ment. While American workers break
their backs to make ends meet and
earn ever less of ever growing cor-
porate profits, what might Justice
Scalia’s former clerk portend for the
future of labor rights?
What about voting rights? Judge Bar-
rett has suggested that certain rights
are civic rights, including voting
rights, and can be restrained by the
government, but other rights, like the
right to keep and bear arms, are indi-
vidual rights that cannot be subject to
even the most commonsense restric-
tions.
And, of course, what about
healthcare? Judge Barrett has argued
that Justice Roberts got it wrong when
he upheld the Affordable Care Act. She
said that, if Justice Roberts read the
statute properly, the Supreme Court
would have had to invalidate—her
words—the law.
That is the same thing, by the way,
that Donald Trump said about Justice
Roberts and the ACA. That is the great
and terrible truth about this nomina-
tion.
Judge Barrett holds far-right views,
well outside the American mainstream,
and those views matter to the vast ma-
jority of Americans. They matter to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.425 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6586 October 25, 2020
women facing the hardest decision of
their lives. They matter to LGBTQ
Americans like my daughter, who only
5 years ago won the legal right to
marry who she loves and could lose it
just as fast. They matter to little girls
like 7-year-old Penny Fyman from
West Hempstead, Long Island, born
with a neurological disorder, bound to
a wheelchair, attached to a feeding
tube, who is alive today—alive today—
because of the Affordable Care Act.
We are talking about the rights and
freedoms of the American people: their
right to affordable healthcare, to make
private medical decisions with their
doctors, to join a union, to vote with-
out impediment, to marry whom they
love and not be fired because of who
they are.
Judge Amy Coney Barrett will decide
whether all of those rights will be sus-
tained or be curtailed for generations.
And, based on her views on the issues—
not on her qualifications but her views
on the issues—Judge Barrett puts
every single one of those fundamental
rights—American rights—at risk.
So I want to be clear with the Amer-
ican people. The Senate majority, this
Republican Senate majority, is break-
ing faith with you, doing the exact op-
posite of what it promised 4 years ago,
because they wish to cement a major-
ity on the Supreme Court that threat-
ens your fundamental rights.
And I want to be very clear with my
Republican colleagues. You may win
this vote, and Amy Coney Barrett may
become the next Associate Justice of
the Supreme Court, but you will never,
never get your credibility back. And
the next time the American people give
Democrats a majority in this Chamber,
you will have forfeited the right to tell
us how to run that majority.
You may win this vote, but in the
process you will speed the precipitous
decline of faith in our institution, our
politics, the Senate, and the Supreme
Court. You will give an already divided
and angry Nation a fresh outrage, an
open wound in this Chamber that will
take a very long time to heal. You
walk a perilous road.
I know you think that this will even-
tually blow over, but you are wrong.
The American people will never forget
this blatant act of bad faith. They will
never forget your complete disregard
for their voices, for the people standing
in line right now and voting their
choice, not your choice. They will
never forget the lack of consistency,
honor, decency, fairness, and principle.
They will never forget the rights that
are limited, constrained, or taken away
by a far-right majority on the Supreme
Court, and history will record that, by
brute political force, in contradiction
to its stated principles, this Republican
majority confirmed a lifetime appoint-
ment on the eve of an election, a Jus-
tice who will alter the lives and free-
doms of the American people, while
they stood in line to vote.
Leader MCCONNELL has lectured the
Senate before on the consequences of a
majority’s action. ‘‘You’ll regret this,’’
he told Democrats once, ‘‘and you may
regret it a lot sooner than you think.’’
Listen to those words: ‘‘You’ll regret
this, and you may regret it a lot sooner
than you think.’’
I would change just one word. My
colleagues may regret this for a lot
longer than they think.
Here, at this late hour, at the end of
this sordid chapter in the history of
the Senate, the history of the Supreme
Court, my deepest and greatest sadness
is for the American people. Genera-
tions yet unborn will suffer the con-
sequences of this nomination. As the
globe gets warmer, as workers continue
to fall behind, as unlimited dark
money floods our politics, as reac-
tionary State legislatures curtail a
woman’s right to choose, gerrymander
districts, and limit the rights of mi-
norities to vote, my deepest, greatest,
and most abiding sadness tonight is for
the American people and what this
nomination will mean for their lives,
their freedoms, their fundamental
rights.
Monday, October 26, 2020—it will go
down as one of the darkest days in the
231-year history of the U.S. Senate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
think my remarks may encroach some-
what on the time previously set for be-
ginning the vote. I ask consent that I
be allowed to finish.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, this
evening the Senate will render one of
the most consequential judgments it
can ever deliver. We will approve a life-
time appointment to our Nation’s high-
est Court.
Since the ink dried on the Constitu-
tion, only 114 men and women have
been entrusted to uphold the separa-
tion of powers, protect people’s rights,
and dispense impartial justice on the
Supreme Court. In a few minutes,
Judge Amy Coney Barrett of Indiana
will join their ranks.
This body has spent weeks studying
the nominee’s record. We have exam-
ined 15 years of scholarly writings,
about 100 opinions from the Seventh
Circuit, and testimonials from legal ex-
perts running the gamut from close
colleagues to total strangers.
There have been one-on-one meetings
for every Senator who wanted one and
a week of intensive hearings. All of it—
all of it—has pointed to one conclusion:
This is one of the most brilliant, ad-
mired, and well-qualified nominees in
our lifetime.
Intellectually, Judge Barrett is an
absolute all-star. She graduated No. 1
in her class at Notre Dame Law School.
She clerked on the second highest Fed-
eral court and the Supreme Court.
Then she returned to her alma mater
and became an award-winning aca-
demic.
Judge Barrett’s mastery of the Con-
stitution gives her a firm grasp on the
judicial role. She has pledged to ‘‘apply
the law as written, not as she wishes it
were.’’ Her testimony, her writings,
and her reputation confirm a total and
complete commitment to impartiality,
and the nominee’s personal integrity
and strength of character are literally
beyond reproach.
She earned the highest rating from
the left-leaning American Bar Associa-
tion. They marveled at the ‘‘breadth,
diversity, and strength of the positive
feedback [they] received from judges
and lawyers of all political persua-
sions.’’
If confirmed, this daughter of Lou-
isiana and Indiana will become the
only current Justice with a law degree
from any school not named Harvard or
Yale—any school not named Harvard
or Yale. She will be the first mother of
school-aged children to ever sit on the
Court.
By every account, the Supreme Court
is getting not just a talented lawyer
but a fantastic person. We have heard
moving testimony from former stu-
dents whom Judge Barrett went out of
her way to help and to mentor. Her
past clerks describe an exemplary boss.
Her fellow scholars describe a winsome,
respectful colleague who is tailor-made
for the collaborative atmosphere of the
Court.
By any objective standard, col-
leagues, Judge Barrett deserves to be
confirmed to the Supreme Court. The
American people agree. In just a few
minutes, she will be on the Supreme
Court.
Two weeks ago, a CNN journalist
made this observation that I found par-
ticularly interesting. This is what he
said: ‘‘Let’s be honest . . . in another
[political] age . . . Judge Amy Coney
Barrett would be getting 70 votes or
more in the United States Senate . . .
because of her qualifications’’—in a dif-
ferent era.
Now, we know that is not going to
happen. These are not the days when
Justice Scalia was confirmed 98 to 0
and Justice Ginsburg was confirmed 96
to 3. By the way, I voted for both Gins-
burg and Breyer. It seems like a long
time ago now.
We spent a lot of energy in recent
weeks debating this matter. I think we
can all acknowledge that both sides in
the Senate have sort of parallel oral
histories about the last 30 or so years.
Each side feels the other side struck
first and struck worst and has done
more to electrify the atmosphere
around here about confirmations.
Now, predictably enough, I think our
account is based on what actually hap-
pened, what actually occurred—factu-
ally accurate. I was there. I know what
happened.
I had laid it out earlier, and I will
talk about some of it again so the peo-
ple may understand how we got to
where we are. It was the Senate Demo-
crats—our colleagues over here, who
amazingly enough don’t seem to be on
the floor at the moment—who spent
the early 2000s boasting about their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.426 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6587
October 25, 2020
brand-new strategy of filibustering
qualified nominees from a Republican
President. They were proud of it. They
found a new way to halt the process,
stop those crazy rightwing judges that
Bush 43 was going to send up.
They pioneered it because they knew
what the precedent was at that point.
At that point, as we discussed before, it
just wasn’t done. You could do it—you
could—but you didn’t. The best evi-
dence that you shouldn’t do it was the
Clarence Thomas nomination, con-
firmed 52 to 48. All of us know that any
one of us in this body has a lot of power
to object. If any one of the 100 Senators
at that time, including people who
were vehemently opposed to Justice
Thomas—like Joe Biden and Ted Ken-
nedy—could have made us get to 60
votes and Thomas Clarence would not
have been on the Supreme Court. That
is how strong the tradition was, until
the Democratic leader led the effort in
the early 2000s to establish the new
standard.
Well, after establishing the new
standard, they got kind of weary of it.
In 2013, the so-called nuclear option
was implemented because Republicans
were holding President Obama’s nomi-
nees to the same standard that they,
themselves, had created. When the shoe
got on the other foot, they didn’t like
it too much. It was too tight.
Senate Democrats, both in 1992 and
2007, helpfully volunteered how they
would have dealt with a nominee like
we did in 2016. The then-chairman of
the Judiciary Committee, Joe Biden,
helpfully volunteered in 1992 when
Bush 41 was running for reelection
that, had a vacancy occurred, they
wouldn’t fill it. There wasn’t a va-
cancy, but he helpfully volunteered
how they would deal with it if they had
one. ‘‘If there is a vacancy, we won’t
fill it.’’
Well, to one-up him, Leader Harry
Reid and his friend—now the Demo-
cratic leader—CHUCK SCHUMER said: 18
months—18 months—before the end of
the Bush 43 period, if a vacancy on the
Supreme Court occurred, they wouldn’t
fill it. That is a fact. What we are talk-
ing about here are the facts about how
we got to where we are.
I understand my Democratic friends
seem to be terribly persuaded by their
version of all of this. All I can tell you
is, I was there, I know what happened,
and my version is totally accurate. The
truth is, on all of this, we owe the
country a broader discussion. Com-
peting claims about Senate customs
cannot fully explain where we are. Pro-
cedural finger-pointing does not ex-
plain the torrent of outrage and
threats which this nomination and
many previous ones had provoked from
the political left.
There are deeper reasons why these
loud voices insist it is a national crisis.
You just heard it: It is a national crisis
when a Republican President makes a
nominee for the Supreme Court. Catas-
trophe looms right around the corner.
The country will be fundamentally
changed forever when a Republican
President makes a Supreme Court
nomination.
They have hauled out the very same
tactics for 50 years. Some of the oppo-
sition is more intense, but the dooms-
day predictions about the outcome of
nominating these extremists like John
Paul Stephens, David Souter—I mean,
the country was hanging in the bal-
ance. Really?
Well, somehow, everyone knows in
advance that nominations like Bork,
Thomas, Alito, Gorsuch, Kavanaugh,
and Barrett are certain to whip up na-
tional frenzies, while nominations like
Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, and
Kagan are just calm events by com-
parison.
This glaring asymmetry predates our
recent disputes. It comes, my col-
leagues, from a fundamental disagree-
ment on the role of a judge in our Re-
public. We just have a fundamental dif-
ference of opinion. We just heard the
Democratic leader name all of these
things that are threatened by this
nominee. It sounds very similar to the
tunes we have heard before. We, like
many Americans, want judges to fulfill
the limited role the Constitution as-
signs to them: stick to text, resolve
cases impartially, and leave policy-
making to the people and their rep-
resentatives, which is what we do here.
We just spent 4 years confirming bril-
liant, qualified constitutionalists to
the Supreme Court and lower courts
who understand their roles—53 circuit
judges, over 200 judges in total—and we
are about to confirm the third Supreme
Court Justice—what they all have in
common: brilliant, smart, and know
what a judge is supposed to be.
The left thinks the Framers of our
country got this all wrong. They
botched the job—the people who wrote
the Constitution, they didn’t under-
stand what a judge ought to be.
Several Senate Democrats have re-
affirmed in recent days during this dis-
cussion that they actually find it
quaint or naive to think the judge
would simply follow the law. Quaint or
naive?
Scalia used to say: If you want to
make policy, why don’t you run for of-
fice? That is not what we do here.
Gorsuch said: We don’t wear red
robes or blue robes, we wear black
robes.
What they want is activist judges.
They have made it quite clear. The
Democratic leader just a few minutes
ago made it quite clear: What they are
looking for here is a small panel of
lawyers with elite educations to reason
backward from outcomes and enlighten
all of the rest of us with their moral
and political judgment, whether the
Constitution speaks to the issue or not.
They know what is best for us, no
matter what the Constitution or the
law may say. For the last several dec-
ades in many cases, that is what they
have done—one activist decision after
another, giving the subjective pref-
erences of one side the force of law.
Across a wide variety of social, moral,
and policy matters like a healthy soci-
ety would lead to democratic debate,
the personal opinion of judges have su-
perseded the will of the people.
They call that a success, and they
want more of it. President Obama actu-
ally was refreshingly honest about
this. He said he wanted to appoint
judges who had empathy. Well, think
about that for a minute, colleagues.
What if you are the litigant before the
judge for whom the judge does not have
empathy? You are in tough shape. You
are in tough shape. So you give him
credit for being pretty honest about
this.
That is what they are looking for—
the smartest, leftish people they can
put to make all the decisions for the
rest of us, rather than leaving it to the
messy democratic process to sort these
things out, the way the Framers in-
tended.
It is clearly why we have taken on
such an outsized, combative atmos-
phere with regard to these confirma-
tions. That is why they have become so
contentious, because they want to con-
trol not only the legislative body but
the judicial decisions as well.
Let me just say this. There is noth-
ing innate about legal training that
equips people to be moral philosophers.
There is just nothing inherent in legal
training that equips people to be moral
philosophers.
Incidentally, as I just said, that is
why these confirmations have taken on
such an outsized, unhealthy signifi-
cance. The remarks we just heard from
across the aisle show exactly why the
Framers wanted to stop the courts
from becoming clumsy, indirect battle-
fields for subjective debates that be-
long in this Chamber and over in the
House and in State legislatures around
the country.
The left does not rage and panic at
every constitutional judge because
they will simply enact our party’s pol-
icy preferences. Any number of recent
rulings make that very clear. The prob-
lem that every judicial seat occupied
by a constitutionalist is one fewer op-
portunity for the left to go on offense.
At the end of the day, this is a valid
debate. The difference of opinion on
the judicial role is something the Sen-
ate and our system are built to handle.
But there is something else, colleagues,
our system cannot bear. As you heard
tonight, we now have one political fac-
tion essentially claiming they now see
legitimate defeat as an oxymoron.
They now see legitimate defeat as an
oxymoron.
Our colleagues cannot point to a sin-
gle Senate rule that has been broken—
not one. They made one false claim
about committee procedure, which the
Parliamentarian dismissed. The proc-
ess comports entirely with the Con-
stitution. We don’t have any doubt, do
we, that if the shoe was on the other
foot, they would be confirming this
nominee? Have no doubt, if the shoe
was on the other foot in 2016, they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.428 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6588 October 25, 2020
would have done the same thing. Why?
Because they had the elections that
made those decisions possible.
The reason we were able to make the
decision we did in 2016 is because we
had become the majority in 2014. The
reason we were able to do what we did
in 2016, 2018, and 2020 is because we had
the majority. No rules were broken
whatsoever.
All of these outlandish claims are ut-
terly absurd. The louder they scream,
the more inaccurate they are. You can
always tell—just check the decibel
level on the other side. The higher it
goes up, the less accurate they are.
Our Democratic colleagues keep re-
peating the word ‘‘illegitimate’’ as if
repetition would make it true. If you
just say it often enough, does it make
it true? I don’t think so. We are a con-
stitutional Republic. Legitimacy does
not flow from their feelings. Legit-
imacy is not the result of how they feel
about it. You can’t win them all. Elec-
tions have consequences.
What this administration and this
Republican Senate has done is exercise
the power that was given to us by the
American people in a manner that is
entirely within the rules of the Senate
and the Constitution of the United
States.
Irony, indeed. Think about how many
times our Democratic friends have
said—berating President Trump for al-
legedly refusing to accept legitimate
outcomes he does not like. How many
times have we heard that: President
Trump won’t accept outcomes he does
not like. They are flunking that very
test right before our eyes.
That is their problem. They don’t
like the outcome.
Well, the reason this outcome came
about is because we had a series of suc-
cessful elections. One of our two major
political parties increasingly claims
that any—any political system that
deals them a setback is somehow ille-
gitimate. And this started actually
long before this vacancy, as we all
know.
One year ago, Senate Democrats sent
the Court—the Court, directly, an ami-
cus brief that read like a note from a
gangster film. They wrote: ‘‘The Su-
preme Court is not well’’ in their ami-
cus brief. ‘‘The Supreme Court is not
well. . . . Perhaps the Court can heal
itself [heal itself] before the public de-
mands it be ‘restructured.’ ’’
In March of this year, the Demo-
cratic leader stood outside the Court.
He went over in front of the Court and
threatened multiple Justices by name.
Here is what he said: ‘‘You won’t know
what hit you if you go forward with
these awful decisions.’’
‘‘You will pay the price!’’
That is the Democratic leader of the
Senate in front of the Supreme Court
mentioning Justices by name and, in
effect, saying: If you rule the wrong
way, bad things are going to happen.
For multiple years now, Democrats
in this body and on the Presidential
campaign stump have sought to revive
the discredited concept of Court pack-
ing. Every high school student in
America learns about Franklin Roo-
sevelt’s unprincipled assault on judi-
cial independence, so now they are
thinking about repeating it. Former
Vice President Biden, who spent dec-
ades condemning the idea here in the
Senate, obediently says he will look
into it.
Most importantly, the late Ruth
Bader Ginsburg said last year, when
asked about this, she said nine is the
right number. That is the vacancy we
are filling right now. I don’t think any
of them quoted her on this issue, have
they? Ruth Bader Ginsburg said nine is
the right number.
These latest threats follow decades of
subtler attempts to take independent
judges and essentially put them on po-
litical probation: You don’t rule the
way I want, something dire might hap-
pen.
How many consecutive nominees
have Democrats and the media insisted
would ‘‘tip the balance’’ of the Court?
How often do we hear that—‘‘tip the
balance’’ of the Court? Has anyone tal-
lied up how many ‘‘hard right turns’’
the courts have supposedly taken in
our lifetimes? All this ominous talk is
a transparent attempt to apply im-
proper pressure to impartial judges.
Rule how we want or we are coming
after the Court. Rule how we want or
we are coming after the Court. Vote
how we want or we will destroy the
Senate by adding new States. These
have been the Democratic demands.
This is not about separation of powers.
It is a hostage situation—a hostage sit-
uation.
Elections come and go. Political
power is never permanent. But the con-
sequences could be cataclysmic if our
colleagues across the aisle let partisan
passion boil over and scorch—scorch
the ground rules of our government.
The Framers built the Senate to be
the Nation’s firewall. Over and over,
this institution—our institution—has
stood up to stop recklessness that
could have damaged our country for-
ever.
So tonight, colleagues, we are called
on to do that again. Tonight, we can
place a woman of unparalleled ability
and temperament on the Supreme
Court. We can take another historic
step toward a Judiciary that fulfills its
role with excellence but does not grasp
after power that our constitutional
system intentionally assigns some-
where else.
And we can state loud and clear that
the U.S. Senate does not bow to intem-
perate threats.
Voting to confirm this nominee
should make every single Senator
proud.
So I urge my colleagues to do just
that.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I note
the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. A
quorum is present.
All postcloture time has expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the nomination of
Amy Coney Barrett, of Indiana, to be
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court
of the United States?
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask for the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is
there a sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 48, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 224 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Loeffler
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—48
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The
nomination of Amy Coney Barrett, of
Indiana, to be an Associate Justice of
the Supreme Court of the United
States is confirmed.
(Applause.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI). The majority leader.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 865.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of James Ray
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.428 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6589
October 25, 2020
Knepp II, of Ohio, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Ohio.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of James Ray Knepp II, of Ohio, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Ohio.
Mitch McConnell, James E. Risch, Joni
Ernst, Marsha Blackburn, Mike Crapo,
James Lankford, Thom Tillis, Roy
Blunt, Roger F. Wicker, Pat Roberts,
Mike Rounds, John Cornyn, John
Hoeven, Jerry Moran, Lamar Alex-
ander, Mike Braun, David Perdue.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 744 and 896
through 902 and all nominations on the
Secretary’s desk in the Air Force,
Army, and Navy and that the nomina-
tions be confirmed. I further ask unani-
mous consent that for all nominations
confirmed during today’s session of the
Senate, that the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed are as follows:
IN THE MARINE CORPS
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Marine Corps to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Robert F. Hedelund
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named Air National Guard of
the United States officers for appointment in
the Reserve of the Air Force to the grade in-
dicated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12212:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Jon S. Safstrom
IN THE ARMY
The following Army National Guard of the
United States officer for appointment in the
Reserve of the Army to the grades indicated
under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203 and
12211:
To be brigadier general
Col. Robert B. Davis
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Robert J. Skinner
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Mark C. Schwartz
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the Reserve of the Army to the
grades as indicated under title 10, U.S.C.,
section 12203:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Matthew V. Baker
Brig. Gen. Vincent B. Barker
Brig. Gen. Bowlman T. Bowles, III
Brig. Gen. Miguel A. Castellanos
Brig. Gen. Miles A. Davis
Brig. Gen. Matthew P. Easley
Brig. Gen. John B. Hashem
Brig. Gen. Joseph J. Heck
Brig. Gen. Susan E. Henderson
Brig. Gen. Jamelle C. Shawley
Brig. Gen. Tracy L. Smith
Brig. Gen. Lawrence F. Thoms
To be brigadier general
Col. Harvey A. Cutchin
Col. John M. Dreska
Col. Charles A. Gambaro, Jr.
Col. Michael M. Greer
Col. Andrew R. Harewood
Col. Daniel H. Hershkowitz
Col. Stephanie Q. Howard
Col. Maria A. Juarez
Col. Robert T. Krumm
Col. Jocelyn A. Leventhal
Col. Kevin F. Meisler
Col. Andree G. Navarro
Col. Robert S. Powell, Jr.
Col. Jeffrey D. Pugh
Col. David M. Samuelsen
Col. Katherine A. Simonson
Col. Justin M. Swanson
Col. Dean P. Thompson
Col. Jason J. Wallace
Col. Matthew S. Warne
Col. Michael L. Yost
IN THE SPACE FORCE
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Space Force to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C. section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. John E. Shaw
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the permanent grade indicated in
the United States Space Force under title 10,
U.S.C., section 716:
To be major general
Maj. Gen. John E. Shaw
NOMINATIONS PLACED ON THE SECRETARY’S
DESK
IN THE AIR FORCE
PN2258 AIR FORCE nominations (3) begin-
ning JESSICA R. COLMAN, and ending
BRIAN A. THALHOFER, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of September 30,
2020.
PN2259 AIR FORCE nominations (2) begin-
ning SCOTT R. MOORE, and ending SAN-
DRA V. SLATER, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of September 30, 2020.
IN THE ARMY
PN2260 ARMY nomination of Anne B. War-
wick, was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
PN2261 ARMY nominations (125) beginning
JAKUB H. ANDREWS, and ending D002999,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of September 30, 2020.
PN2262 ARMY nominations (160) beginning
MATTHEW T. ADAMCZYK, and ending
D015515, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of September 30, 2020.
PN2263 ARMY nominations (18) beginning
JOHN J. AGNELLO, and ending JOHN J.
ZOLLINGER, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of September 30, 2020.
PN2264 ARMY nominations (92) beginning
CORNELIUS L. ALLEN, JR., and ending
MICHEAL A. ZWEIFEL, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of September 30,
2020.
PN2265 ARMY nomination of Corey M.
James, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
PN2266 ARMY nomination of John H.
Mitchell, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 30, 2020.
IN THE NAVY
PN2001 NAVY nomination of Robert K.
Debuse, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
June 17, 2020.
PN2017 NAVY nomination of Paul S.
Ruben, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
June 17, 2020.
PN2267 NAVY nomination of Robert M.
Knapp, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
PN2269 NAVY nomination of Brian E.
Lamarche, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 30, 2020.
PN2270 NAVY nomination of Terence M.
Murphy, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 30, 2020.
PN2271 NAVY nomination of Roldan J.
Crespopabon, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of September 30, 2020.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.430 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6590 October 25, 2020
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
KENTUCKY LOCK AND DAM
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
the Commonwealth of Kentucky is
home to several marvels of engineer-
ing. These feats of concrete and metal
have brought prosperity and oppor-
tunity to tens of thousands of Ken-
tucky families. Earlier this month, we
recognized the 75th anniversary of one
of these landmarks, the Kentucky
Lock and Dam. For three-quarters of a
century, this massive structure has de-
livered electricity, commerce, and jobs
to West Kentucky. I would like to take
a moment to congratulate this commu-
nity for brilliantly taking advantage of
its geography to improve the quality of
life for generations.
In October 1945, a crowd of roughly
20,000 gathered for a glimpse of the
first U.S. President to ever visit Mar-
shall County and the mammoth con-
struction project he came to dedicate.
Although President Truman’s visit was
only temporary, the Kentucky Lock
and Dam’s rural electrification marked
a turning point that has lasted for dec-
ades. It began as plans drawn in a hum-
ble patch of dirt by local businessman
Luther Draffen and engineers from the
Tennessee Valley Authority. Luther
envisioned a lock and dam system that,
for the first time, would bring elec-
tricity to much of Marshall County and
the Jackson Purchase region. He re-
lentlessly pushed for the investment
and construction of the project to im-
prove flood control, enhance the flow of
commercial traffic, and power the re-
gion’s future.
Luther made some influential allies
along the way, including Senator Alben
Barkley, who began his political career
a few miles down the road in Paducah.
Barkley was elected Senate majority
leader in 1937 and, with his new clout,
secured the first appropriation for the
Kentucky Lock and Dam’s construc-
tion the next year. Today, the dam cre-
ates the largest water reservoir in the
eastern United States.
In my career, I have had my own op-
portunities to deliver for the families
who depend on the Kentucky Lock and
Dam. As its waterway traffic increased,
I led the authorization for the con-
struction of a new and larger lock.
Since then, I have directed over $600
million to the project through the Ap-
propriations Committee, investing in
Kentucky’s 20,000 maritime workers
and their future. As work continues on
the lock, I will always continue to sup-
port this project and the Kentuckians
it serves.
Just up the river, we celebrated the
ribbon cutting of a similar project at
the Olmsted Locks and Dam in 2018.
Over the course of three decades, the
Olmsted became one of the largest civil
works projects in U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers’ history. Today, it sees more
commercial traffic than any other in-
land waterway location within the
United States. From its authorization
through completion, I was working in
the Senate to ensure the project re-
ceived necessary funding for the fami-
lies who depend on it.
So I am proud to join this commu-
nity in marking the 75th anniversary
of the Kentucky Lock and Dam and its
transformative impact on this region. I
look forward to the completion of the
new lock project to continue its great
benefits for years to come.
Bobbie Foust, a columnist for the
Marshall County Tribune-Courier, at-
tended the dedication of Kentucky
Lock and Dam in 1945. She recently
wrote an incredible article about its
historic impact, and I ask unanimous
consent the article be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Marshall County Tribune-Courier,
Oct. 6, 2020]
KENTUCKY DAM BROUGHT PROSPERITY 75
YEARS AGO; PROMOTERS DREW PLAN IN DIRT
AT A PLUM THICKET
(By Bobbie Foust)
It was October 10, 1945. The weather was
sunny and warm. President Harry S. Truman
was dedicating Kentucky Dam from a plat-
form below that powerful engineering
achievement.
The dam had been producing electricity for
13 months. The crowd was estimated at
20,000, and it was the only time a sitting
president has visited Marshall County.
I was 11 years old, and I was there.
Saturday will mark the 75th anniversary of
that dedication. It will pass with little fan-
fare. Yet it is impossible to understand the
impact Kentucky Dam has had on western
Kentucky unless you have experienced it.
Kentucky Dam literally pushed Marshall
County and environs out of poverty. It was
the brainchild of Calvert City businessman
Luther Draffen and U.S. Sen. Alben Barkley
of Paducah. Barkley later became vice presi-
dent of the United States. Their unwavering
work to have the dam built and located here
is unmatched.
For those born after 1945, Kentucky Dam,
Kentucky Lake and Kentucky Dam State
Resort Park have just been here for their en-
joyment. However, there’s a powerful—at
times poignant—backstory of how they be-
came reality.
At a 1975 dinner, the late Murray State
University Professor L.J. Hortin painted a
vivid picture of Luther Draffen as the driv-
ing force behind Kentucky Dam: ‘‘In 1936, we
met in an old plumb thicket overlooking the
Tennessee River and there was poverty all
around us,’’ Hortin said. ‘‘If anybody had
predicted we’d be in this beautiful Calvert
City Country Club now, I wouldn’t have be-
lieved it.’’
During the plumb thicket meeting, Ten-
nessee Valley Authority engineers and
Draffen drew plans of the dam in the dirt
with a pointed stick for Senator Barkley and
a bevy of congressmen.
Before the dam, Marshall County was a
poor farming community. Thousands were
leaving to work in factories in Detroit and
Flint, Michigan and chemical industries or
steel mills in Akron and Cleveland, Ohio.
Electric power didn’t exist here. There were
no electric lights, electric refrigerators or
kitchen ranges, running water or indoor
plumbing. Farm families lit their homes
with kerosene lamps. In winter, families
heated their homes with wood-burning fire-
places or potbellied coal stoves. Neither tele-
vision nor the internet existed though some
families had battery-powered radios.
In 1933 Congress passed the Tennessee Val-
ley Authority Act, the New Deal federal
agency that built a series of 16 dams includ-
ing Kentucky Dam. Kentucky Dam had three
objectives—enhanced navigation, flood con-
trol, and hydroelectric power production.
After operations at the dam began, it took
another five years before rural electric co-
operatives, created under the Rural Elec-
trification Act of 1936, extended electric
power to farm communities.
The history of economic development in
the lower Tennessee River Valley and con-
struction of Kentucky between July 1, 1938
and Aug. 30, 1944 is a long series of events
going back to the Civil War. Without
Draffen’s vision, financial investment, time
and political prowess the dam might never
have been built at the Gilbertsville townsite.
Though he didn’t do it alone, he was the
driving force.
Draffen solicited and received help from a
litany of heavy hitters of his era. Besides
Barkley, there was Hortin, Paducah broad-
caster Hecht Lackey, Congressmen Voris
Gregory and Noble Gregory of Mayfield, Sen-
ators Kenneth McKellar of Tennessee and
George Norris of Nebraska. Draffen also led
the powerful Lower Tennessee Valley Asso-
ciation, made up of about 40 business leaders
from western Kentucky, northwest Ten-
nessee, southeast Missouri and southern Illi-
nois. LTVA’s single goal was to ‘‘bring pros-
perity to this region,’’ known as ‘‘the Val-
ley.’’ Electrification was crucial if the Val-
ley’s people were to prosper.
Draffen wasn’t the first person to envision
damming the lower Tennessee River. Efforts
to tame the river, especially for navigation
and flood control, began as early as 1864.
What Draffen understood was that electri-
fying ‘‘the Valley’’ was the only way to al-
leviate poverty. Building a hydroelectric
power dam would achieve that goal. In 1928,
Draffen made 48 trips to Louisville at his
own expense to lobby Kentucky Utilities to
provide electricity here. KU provided elec-
tricity to Paducah, but refused to extend its
lines into rural communities saying, ‘‘there
wasn’t sufficient need.’’
Groundwork that eventually prompted
Kentucky Dam’s construction started June
5, 1920 when Congress authorized the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers to conduct a 10-
year survey of the Tennessee River Valley. It
was the most comprehensive study ever
made of any river basin in the United States.
In 1928, the Corps recommended a flood con-
trol, navigation and power dam at Aurora
Landing in Marshall County. The rec-
ommendation prompted formation of Aurora
Dam Clubs in Marshall, Calloway and Graves
counties.
The project went to Congress on March 24,
1930, and on May 28, 1931, Southern Utilities
Inc. was granted a temporary permit to build
the dam. But on May 18, 1933, President
Franklin Roosevelt created TVA. That
changed the picture. TVA opposed
Southern’s plan, and the company’s permit
was allowed to expire.
Aurora Dam Clubs morphed into the LTVA
with Warren Swann of Murray as president,
Draffen, vice president and Hortin as sec-
retary. In 1935, Congress authorized TVA to
build dams for a nine-foot channel from Pa-
ducah to Knoxville, Tennessee. ‘‘It was key
legislation,’’ Draffen said in a 1973 interview.
‘‘Without that, there was doubt TVA would
ever build a dam on the lower Tennessee
River.’’
In March 1936, TVA rejected Aurora Land-
ing and recommended Gilbertsville as the
preferred site. Then began what Hortin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.434 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6591
October 25, 2020
called ‘‘the most frustrating, most difficult
problem of the entire effort.’’ TVA kept
stalling and opposition from private inter-
ests arose. ‘‘TVA had moved in but wasn’t
ready to build the dam,’’ Hortin said. ‘‘All
the while the nation’s economic condition
pressed hard on the people. There was hun-
ger, people couldn’t get work, and the out-
look was grim. TVA would say, ‘Someday
we’ll build it.’ We wanted them to get it
started. TVA was being called socialism, and
a lot of unprintable things. But LTVA stayed
out of that type rhetoric and petty politics.
Our argument was pretty mercenary. We
contended that TVA was building dams for
other states, it was federal tax money being
spent, and here we were at the heart of all
this water, and our dam wasn’t being built!’’
In January 1937, fate took a hand as nature
demonstrated the need for a dam. Rain fell
for 19 days. The Tennessee and Ohio rivers
and their tributaries overflowed their banks.
Multimillions of dollars were lost.
A crucial piece of legislation passed Con-
gress on Feb. 16, 1938. Hortin received a tele-
gram from Sen. Barkley reading: ‘‘Just re-
tained, Gilbertsville, whole TVA appropria-
tion.’’ That bill meant TVA’s appropriation
wouldn’t be cut. Still TVA wouldn’t use the
word, construction. Draffen was on a train
bound for Washington to lobby for the bill
when he received the news. He continued his
journey and thanked each legislator who
voted for it.
LTVA’s lobbying bore fruit on July 1, 1938
when Congress appropriated $2.613 million
for construction of the dam. Its total cost
was $116.2 million. ‘‘On that day the word
construction was used for the first time,’’
Hortin said. ‘‘It was key; we had our dam!’’
At the height of construction, 5,000 men
from several states came to work on the
dam. The economy boomed, and housing was
needed for the influx of workers. TVA floated
homes down the river to Gilbertsville from
its worker village at Pickwick Dam and
built a self-contained community with
schools, administration offices, medical clin-
ic and recreational facilities. That commu-
nity, just south of old Gilbertsville, became
known as ‘‘The Village.’’
After the dam was completed, Draffen re-
cruited Charles Hall to assist him in efforts
to entice industry to locate in Calvert City.
Hall wrote more than 1,000 letters touting
the amenities Calvert City offered—cheap
electricity, river, rail and highway transpor-
tation. Draffen and Hall reaped success in
1948 when the Pennsylvania Salt Manufac-
turing Company (now Arkema) announced it
would build a plant near Altona. It opened in
July 1949. Pittsburgh Metallurgical Company
(now Calvert City Metals & Alloys) opened in
November 1949. Industrialization had begun.
Predictions that Calvert City’s population
would balloon from less than 300 to 10,000 by
1960 didn’t happen. However, industrializa-
tion continued with National Carbide of Air
Reduction (now Carbide Industries) opening
in January 1953, followed by BFGoodrich
Chemical Company (now Lubrizol) and West
Lake Chemicals. American Aniline and Ex-
tract Company (now Estron) opened in 1954;
Airco Chemical Company (which later be-
came Air Products and Chemicals and is now
Evonik), and General Aniline and Film Cor-
poration (now Ashland) opened in 1956. Other
spin off companies include Wacker,
Cymetech and many support businesses.
A few industries Draffen and Hall courted
didn’t locate at Calvert City. Hall said Gen-
eral Tire, now closed, opted for Mayfield.
Then there was Great Lakes Carbon Corpora-
tion owned by George Skakel, father of Ethel
Kennedy. In a 1980 interview, the late Grand
Rivers Mayor John Henry O’Bryan, said Lu-
ther Draffen brought Skakel to Grand Rivers
to buy land for a plant. Great Lakes Carbon
bought more than 1,200 acres a little north-
east of Grand Rivers from TVA and three
private landowners. But in a letter to Hall
dated April 3, 1952, Skakel said he regretted
‘‘the company had reluctantly decided to
abandon its development plans.’’ Skakel held
out hope that Great Lakes Carbon might
build the plant later. But on Oct. 3, 1955,
Skakel and his wife, Ann, were killed when
their plane crashed.
Probably the most significant impact elec-
tricity from Kentucky Dam made on Mar-
shall County was a higher standard of living
for its people. In 2015, earnings in all indus-
tries averaged nearly $55,000 annually. Last
year, travel and recreation—much of it re-
lated to Kentucky Lake created by the
dam—added $74 million to the county’s econ-
omy and Calvert City added 2.994 million in
payroll taxes to county coffers.
f
CORONAVIRUS
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, the
COVID–19 pandemic has hit all news or-
ganizations and hit them hard at a
time when they have rarely been so es-
sential to the American people and our
communities.
News organizations have had to se-
verely trim their staffs, while coping,
as we all have had to do, with the
pandemic’s health threats and uncer-
tainties. It is a great credit to our
Fourth Estate that so many news orga-
nizations nonetheless have managed to
produce such heroic work in meeting
this vital challenge.
Most news outlets have had to transi-
tion to an online distribution model in
distributing their reporting during this
pandemic. These valiant efforts have
included those by online-only news or-
ganizations such as ‘‘Vermont Digger,’’
in Vermont. The New York Times re-
cently recognized the vital work of
such Vermont news outlets as
‘‘Vermont Digger’’ and ‘‘Seven Days’’
in the face of these unprecedented
challenges.
Vermont stands almost alone in the
Nation in our State’s successful efforts
to slow the spread of COVID–19. Much
of that can be attributed to the bold
steps taken by State and local commu-
nities and leaders at all levels, includ-
ing Governor Phil Scott, to follow the
science in promoting mask wearing and
social distancing. Sensible and respon-
sible leadership, and strong and steady
reporting by Vermont’s news organiza-
tions, have produced ‘‘a high degree of
social trust,’’ as the Washington Post
has reported.
Recently ‘‘Vermont Digger’’ was rec-
ognized by the Local Independent On-
line News Association for its local cov-
erage of COVID–19, and that recogni-
tion is richly deserved.
Vermonters know that in troubling
times like these, we fare best when we
make the difficult but important deci-
sions to protect our families, our
neighbors, and our communities. This
pandemic continues to rage, but I am
proud that my fellow Vermonters are
once again leading the Nation in our
efforts to conquer out this virus.
TRIBUTE TO NANCY EVERHART
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I
would like to recognize Nancy
Everhart on the occasion of her retire-
ment from the Vermont Housing and
Conservation Board. Nancy Everhart
has been a true Vermont leader in agri-
culture and conservation, dedicating
her decades-long career to the protec-
tion of farmland and the viability of
the farmers who rely on it. She retires
with an extensive list of accomplish-
ments. The passion she applies to her
work has had a tremendous impact on
the Vermont landscape, as well as our
Nation’s agricultural future.
Nancy was a farmer first. As a strong
pioneer of Vermont’s organic move-
ment during the 1980s, she was among
the first Vermonters to sell organic
milk to her community. Her work and
that of other like-minded farmers in
Vermont were catalysts in the early
organic movement that ultimately led
me to introduce the Organic Food Pro-
duction Act as chairman of the Senate
Agriculture Committee. Enacted as
part of the 1990 farm bill, that bill cre-
ated the first-ever standards and label
for what is now a $50 billion industry.
Even as she became a national leader
in conservation, Nancy has still main-
tained a small, diversified, organic
farm at her home in Marshfield, VT.
Her personal experiences as a farmer
have afforded her a unique perspective
and credibility to bring to each phase
of her career.
As the conservation director for the
Vermont Housing and Conservation
Board, Nancy has led or contributed di-
rectly to the conservation of more than
77,000 acres across nearly 500 parcels of
Vermont farmland. These projects have
helped to keep Vermont farms viable
by allowing farm owners to access sub-
stantial capital and benefit from their
most valuable asset, their land. Those
benefits, however, do not stop at the
fence line. Nancy knows that invest-
ments in preserving working land-
scapes benefit the rural communities
that surround them and contribute
greatly to the tourist and outdoor
economies of rural States like
Vermont. They can be a bridge to the
next generation, often providing young
and beginning farmers the opportunity
to overcome their biggest hurdle: ac-
cessing affordable farmland to start
and grow their enterprise. When that
succession of stewardship is broken and
working lands fall out of production, it
can exact an immeasurable price from
the community.
Nancy’s decades of work have exem-
plified and brought home to Vermont
exactly the outcomes that I envisioned
when I worked to establish the Federal
role for farmland protection in the 1990
and 1996 farm bills. Since that time,
Nancy has drawn on her vast experi-
ence to provide counsel on how to ex-
pand that role and continually improve
farmland conservation provisions, in-
cluding most recently in the Agricul-
tural Conservation Easement Program
—ACEP—provisions of the 2018 farm
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.192 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6592 October 25, 2020
bill. Those provisions greatly enhance
the delivery and flexibility of farmland
conservation programs, not just for
Vermont but across the entire United
States.
As a farmer herself, Nancy Everhart
understands the challenges that farm-
ers face, and she has dedicated a por-
tion of her work to improving farm via-
bility, increasing diversification, and
providing opportunities for young
Vermonters to realize their own farm
dreams. As she retires, Nancy’s enthu-
siasm and commitment to Vermont ag-
riculture will continue to be reflected
in our State’s working landscape and
resilient farmers.
f
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF
GEORGETOWN LAW
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, 150
years ago, Georgetown Law convened
its first class in Washington, DC, where
25 students from 12 States began what
has now become a century and a half
long legacy of learning. While George-
town Law’s entering classes look quite
different now—over 500 students from
nearly all 50 States and from countries
around the world—the institution’s
dedication to justice and service re-
mains the same. Since opening its
doors in 1870, Georgetown Law has edu-
cated generations of bright, driven, and
passionate future lawyers who embody
the school’s motto: ‘‘Law is but the
means, justice is the end.’’
I had the great fortune of attending
Georgetown Law and received my juris
doctorate in 1964. While laptops may
have replaced legal pads since my law
school days, Georgetown Law’s com-
mitment to producing competent,
fiercely principled attorneys has never
changed. The education I received at
Georgetown Law had a profound, indel-
ible impact on me and the way I view
the world.
Georgetown Law furthered my inspi-
ration to become a U.S. Senator. At-
tending classes just blocks away from
Capitol Hill and the Supreme Court, I
and many others were constantly re-
minded that the law is not just an aca-
demic endeavor, but a very real one,
impacting the lives and rights of mil-
lions. It filled me with awe to be learn-
ing the law in the city where laws are
being made. It is no wonder that so
many alumni of Georgetown Law dedi-
cate their lives to public service and
government.
Georgetown Law stands out among
our Nation’s law schools for ensuring
that students are not just learning the
law, but putting it into practice. The
law center offers top-ranked clinical
programs and practicums, in which law
students learn the art and science of
lawyering. From asylum seekers to vic-
tims of domestic violence, from appel-
late arguments to criminal defense
proceedings, Georgetown Law students
learn what it truly means to zealously
advocate for real clients in need.
Georgetown Law also boasts world-
renowned centers and institutes that
push the legal profession to be both in-
trospective and innovative. A special
place of pride for me is the school’s
Center on Privacy and Technology,
which trains the next generation of
lawyers who will carry on a cause that
has been one of my top priorities as a
U.S. Senator: fighting for Americans’
privacy rights.
During these difficult times, it is
steadying to know that Georgetown
Law still embraces one of its oldest but
most timeless traditions: imbibing the
spirit of service in its graduates. That,
without a doubt, is the lasting legacy
of Georgetown Law, educating genera-
tions of lawyers who believe that the
law is an instrument for good.
My congratulations to Georgetown
Law on this milestone. Here is to 150
more.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CHILDREN’S
LITERACY FOUNDATION
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I
would like to call attention to the im-
portant work done by the Children’s
Literacy Foundation—CLiF—a Water-
bury Center, VT, based organization
that was established in 1998 to address
children’s literacy in Vermont and New
Hampshire. CLiF’s founder, Duncan
McDougall, set out to improve access
to books and other learning resources
for children in low-income, at-risk, and
rural communities through a diverse
set of programs, from story-telling
events with authors to partnerships
with elementary schools to distribute
books to students. Over the last 22
years, the foundation has touched the
lives of thousands of children in
Vermont and New Hampshire.
As schools in Vermont have opened
their doors in a more limited capacity
this fall, learning has become more dif-
ficult for many students, and access to
books at home has become even more
critical. Luckily, CLiF quickly moved
to address this new challenge. Since
March, the foundation has partnered
with schools and libraries to fill some
of the gap left by remote learning, dis-
tributing 40,000 books across our two
States, and facilitating remote and in-
person literacy workshops and story-
telling events. Not only has this been
beneficial for children, but it has
helped parents as well, many of whom
are simultaneously juggling teaching,
and working full-time. As a father and
a grandfather, I truly understand the
importance of access to books in the
home, and I am truly grateful for the
efforts made by Mr. McDougall and the
rest of the team at the Children’s Lit-
eracy Foundation to make books more
available for students in Vermont and
New Hampshire.
Reading is, as they say, fundamental,
and I often think of my days visiting
Kellogg Hubbard in Montpelier when I
was growing up. Providing children the
resources and tools to grow in their
reading journeys is providing them a
lifelong tool for success.
The Children Literacy Foundation
was recently featured in an article in
Vermont’s ‘‘Seven Days.’’ I ask unani-
mous consent that the article, ‘‘Water-
bury Literacy Nonprofit Distributes
40,000 Kids’ Books During Pandemic,’’
be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From Seven Days, Sept. 30, 2020]
WATERBURY LITERACY NONPROFIT DISTRIB-
UTES 40,000 KIDS’ BOOKS DURING PANDEMIC
(By Sasha Goldstein)
Anyone with kids knows how difficult
WFH life can be during a pandemic. But a
local nonprofit has tried to make things a
bit easier for families.
Since March, the Waterbury Center-based
Children’s Literacy Foundation has given
away nearly 40,000 books to kids across
Vermont and New Hampshire. The gesture is
all the more important at a time when kids
have been isolated and soaking up screen
time, said Erika Nichols-Frazer, the founda-
tion’s communications manager.
‘‘Our program partners have gotten really
creative with it,’’ Nichols-Frazer said.
‘‘Some of them send books home in meal
packages or with other learning materials;
others have done curbside pickup . . . So
we’re making sure we’re still getting them
books at this time, which is obviously more
important than ever.’’
The foundation’s mission, according to its
website, ‘‘is to inspire a love of reading and
writing among low-income, at-risk, and rural
children up to age 12.’’ Nichols-Frazer said
the pandemic has made that a more urgent
undertaking. Such groups of kids are the
most likely to fall behind when they aren’t
in school or are learning remotely.
Earlier this month, the foundation
launched its Year of the Book program and
donated $25,000 to schools in Chelsea, Wind-
sor, Danby and Clarendon, as well as J.J.
Flynn Elementary School in Burlington.
Each student at those schools will receive 10
new books they may keep and will partici-
pate in virtual and in-person readings and
workshops with local authors and illustra-
tors. The school libraries, classrooms and
even the local community libraries will each
receive cash to buy new books, Nichols-Fraz-
er said.
Despite the pandemic, she said, a group of
volunteers in the Waterbury area has contin-
ued to help put nameplate stickers in each
book so the kids can personalize their read-
ing materials. ‘‘It might sound small, but
it’s an important thing for these kids to own
books,’’ Nichols-Frazer said. ‘‘A lot of the
kids we work with don’t have their own
books, and so having that little sticker in
there that says ‘This is my book’ is kind of
a special thing for them.’’
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, sec-
tion 36(b) of the Arms Export Control
Act requires that Congress receive
prior notification of certain proposed
arms sales as defined by that statute.
Upon such notification, the Congress
has 30 calendar days during which the
sale may be reviewed. The provision
stipulates that, in the Senate, the noti-
fication of proposed sales shall be sent
to the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.193 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6593
October 25, 2020
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION
AGENCY, ARLINGTON, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
20–68 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Taipei
Economic and Cultural Representative Office
in the United States (TECRO) for defense ar-
ticles and services estimated to cost $2.37 bil-
lion. After this letter is delivered to your of-
fice, we plan to issue a news release to notify
the public of this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
HEIDI H. GRANT, Director.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 20–68
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Taipei Economic
and Cultural Representative Office in the
United States (TECRO).
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment A* $1.16 billion.
Other $1.21 billion.
TOTAL $2.37 billion.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase: TECRO has requested to
buy up to one hundred (100) Harpoon Coastal
Defense Systems (HCDS) consisting of:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Up to four hundred (400) RGM–84L–4 Har-
poon Block II Surface Launched Missiles.
Four (4) RTM–84L–4 Harpoon Block II Ex-
ercise Missiles.
Non-MDE: Also included are four hundred
eleven (411) containers, one hundred (100)
Harpoon Coastal Defense System Launcher
Transporter Units, twenty-five (25) radar
trucks, spare and repair parts, support and
test equipment, publications and technical
documentation, personnel training and
training equipment, U.S. Government and
contractor representatives’ technical assist-
ance, engineering and logistics support serv-
ices, and other related elements of logistics
support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (TW–P–
LHX).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: TW–P–LGV,
TW–P–LGN, TW–P–LGL.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
October 26, 2020.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Taipei Economic and Cultural Representa-
tive Office in the United States (TECRO)—
RGM–84L–4 Harpoon Surface Launched
Block II Missiles
TECRO has requested to buy up to one
hundred (100) Harpoon Coastal Defense Sys-
tems (HCDS) consisting of up to four hun-
dred (400) RGM–84L–4 Harpoon Block II Sur-
face Launched Missiles; and four (4) RTM–
84L–4 Harpoon Block II Exercise Missiles.
Also included are four hundred and eleven
(411) containers, one hundred (100) Harpoon
Coastal Defense System Launcher Trans-
porter Units, twenty-five (25) radar trucks,
spare and repair parts, support and test
equipment, publications and technical docu-
mentation, personnel training and training
equipment, U.S. Government and contractor
representatives’ technical assistance, engi-
neering and logistics support services, and
other related elements of logistics support.
The total estimated program cost is $2.37 bil-
lion.
This proposed sale is consistent with U.S.
law and policy as expressed in Public Law 96–
8.
This proposed sale serves U.S. national,
economic, and security interests by sup-
porting the recipient’s continuing efforts to
modernize its armed forces and to maintain
a credible defensive capability. The proposed
sale will help improve the security of the re-
cipient and assist in maintaining political
stability, military balance, economic and
progress in the region.
This proposed sale will improve the recipi-
ent’s capability to meet current and future
threats by providing a flexible solution to
augment existing surface and air defenses.
The recipient will be able to employ a highly
reliable and effective system to counter or
deter maritime aggressions, coastal block-
ades, and amphibious assaults. This capa-
bility will easily integrate into existing
force infrastructure. The recipient will have
no difficulty absorbing these systems into its
armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The principal contractor will be The Boe-
ing Company, St. Louis, MO. There are no
known offset agreements proposed in connec-
tion with this potential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
require the assignment of two (2) U.S. con-
tractor representatives to the recipient for a
duration of 8 years to support technical re-
views, support, and oversight.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 20–68
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The RGM–84L Harpoon Surface
Launched Block II missile system is a non-
nuclear tactical weapon system. It provides
a day, night, and adverse weather, standoff
air-to-surface capability and is an effective
Anti-Surface Warfare missile. The RGM–84L
incorporates components, software, and
technical design information that are con-
sidered sensitive. These elements are essen-
tial to the ability of the Harpoon missile to
selectively engage hostile targets under a
wide range of operations, tactical and envi-
ronmental conditions:
∑ The Radar Seeker,
∑ The Radar Altimeter,
∑ The GPS/INS System,
∑ Operational Flight Program Software,
and
∑ Missile operational characteristics and
performance data.
2. The highest level of classification of de-
fense articles, components, and services in-
cluded in this potential sale is CONFIDEN-
TIAL.
3. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the hardware
and software elements, the information
could be used to develop countermeasures or
equivalent systems, which might reduce sys-
tem effectiveness or be used in the develop-
ment of a system with similar or advanced
capabilities.
4. A determination has been made that the
recipient can provide substantially the same
degree of protection for the sensitive tech-
nology being released as the U.S. Govern-
ment. This sale is necessary in furtherance
of the U.S. foreign policy and national secu-
rity objectives outlined in the Policy Jus-
tification.
5. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to the recipient.
f
NATIVE AMERICAN LANGUAGES
ACT
Mr. UDALL. Madam President, 30
years ago this week, the Native Amer-
ican Languages Act, NALA, was signed
into law. As we celebrate this momen-
tous occasion, I would like to take
some time to reflect.
Native languages hold within them
the culture, history, and resiliency of
their communities, but they are not
only crucial to the communities that
speak them. Native languages have in-
fluenced our shared American history,
contributed to our understanding of en-
vironmental stewardship, and made the
very fabric of our Nation’s identity
richer. As just one notable example of
the impact Native languages have had,
in World War I and World War II, Na-
tive American soldiers known as Code
Talkers used their Native languages to
transmit coded tactical messages. Code
Talkers were able to improve the speed
of communications encryption during
both wars, leading directly to Amer-
ican forces out-maneuvering enemy
troops in numerous military oper-
ations.
Yet prior to enactment of the Native
American Languages Act in 1990, the
United States’ Federal policies and
practices often resulted in suppression
and extermination of Native languages.
Recognizing that these past practices
were in conflict with the principles of
Tribal sovereignty and self-determina-
tion, the Senate Committee on Indian
Affairs sought to reshape Federal pol-
icy to better align with these prin-
ciples. Under the leadership of Chair-
man Inouye and Vice Chairman
McCain, the paradigm-shifting Native
American Languages Act became law,
and the United States formally ac-
knowledged the rights and freedoms of
Native Americans to use, practice, and
develop Native languages.
Under the Native American Lan-
guages Act, Congress set out our cur-
rent Federal Native language policy,
declaring:
‘‘It is the policy of the United States to—
‘‘(1) preserve, protect, and promote the
rights and freedom of Native Americans to
use, practice, and develop Native American
languages;
‘‘(2) allow exceptions to teacher certifi-
cation requirements for Federal programs,
and programs funded in whole or in part by
the Federal Government, for instruction in
Native American languages when such teach-
er certification requirements hinder the em-
ployment of qualified teachers who teach in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.215 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6594 October 25, 2020
Native American languages, and to encour-
age State and territorial governments to
make similar exceptions;
‘‘(3) encourage and support the use of Na-
tive American languages as a medium of in-
struction in order to encourage and sup-
port—
‘‘(A) Native American language survival,
‘‘(B) educational opportunity,
‘‘(C) increased student success and per-
formance,
‘‘(D) increased student awareness and
knowledge of their culture and history, and
‘‘(E) increased student and community
pride;
‘‘(4) encourage State and local education
programs to work with Native American par-
ents, educators, Indian tribes, and other Na-
tive American governing bodies in the imple-
mentation of programs to put this policy
into effect;
‘‘(5) recognize the right of Indian tribes
and other Native American governing bodies
to use the Native American languages as a
medium of instruction in all schools funded
by the Secretary of the Interior;
‘‘(6) fully recognize the inherent right of
Indian tribes and other Native American
governing bodies, States, territories, and
possessions of the United States to take ac-
tion on, and give official status to, their Na-
tive American languages for the purpose of
conducting their own business;
‘‘(7) support the granting of comparable
proficiency achieved through course work in
a Native American language the same aca-
demic credit as comparable proficiency
achieved through course work in a foreign
language, with recognition of such Native
American language proficiency by institu-
tions of higher education as fulfilling foreign
language entrance or degree requirements;
and
‘‘(8) encourage all institutions of elemen-
tary, secondary and higher education, where
appropriate, to include Native American lan-
guages in the curriculum in the same man-
ner as foreign languages and to grant pro-
ficiency in Native American languages the
same full academic credit as proficiency in
foreign languages.’’
Over the last 30 years, catalyzed by
the Native American Languages Act,
Congress has promoted the mainte-
nance and revitalization of Native lan-
guages. In 1992, Congress amended the
act to establish a grant program at the
Administration for Native Americans,
ANA, to support Native language
projects.
During my time in Congress, I have
worked to support Native American
languages revitalization efforts. In
2006, as a U.S. Congressman for New
Mexico, I helped lead a bipartisan bill
to expand the ANA’s grant program to
bolster Native language immersion
education programs. I also participated
in an Education and Workforce Com-
mittee field hearing in my home State
to hear from Native language advo-
cates, which solidified support for the
bill’s passage in the House. Enacted as
the Esther Martinez Native American
Languages Preservation Act, this legis-
lation was named after an Ohkay
Owingeh Pueblo traditional storyteller
and Tewa language advocate who trag-
ically passed away in 2006.
As the current vice chairman of the
Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, I
had the honor of leading the most re-
cent Esther Martinez Native American
Languages Programs Reauthorization
Act, which was signed into law this
past December, to further enhance
ANA’s Native languages grant pro-
grams.
I also convened a Native American
Languages Listening Session last year
and worked with Committee Chairman
JOHN HOEVEN to hold an oversight
hearing in 2018 to hear directly from
Native language revitalization stake-
holders across the country. At those
events, we learned that, over the last
three decades, great strides have been
made to rectify past injustices and
move toward support of Native lan-
guages. Sadly, despite our efforts, a
number of Native languages are still
endangered today. The loss of even one
Native language would deal a signifi-
cant blow to our shared American and
global heritage. There is still more
work to do.
This anniversary is an important op-
portunity for Congress to reflect. I
hope my colleagues will join me and re-
commit to fully upholding the policies
set out in the Native American Lan-
guages Act.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO SUSANNA POST
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam President, I
rise today to pay tribute to an out-
standing Arkansas educator, Susanna
Post, who was named the 2021 Arkansas
Teacher of the Year.
Susanna has demonstrated her excel-
lence in educating during her tenure as
a math and business technology teach-
er at Belle Point Alternative Center in
Fort Smith, AR.
Susanna launched her teaching ca-
reer in North Carolina after graduating
from the University of Arkansas at
Fayetteville in 2002, where she earned a
degree in mathematics and computer
science. She left the classroom tempo-
rarily after a family relocation when
she entered the business world and
worked as petroleum analyst and sen-
ior engineering technician at multiple
oil and gas companies.
We are fortunate that she wanted to
return to teaching as she has been a
trailblazer during her time at Belle
Point, quickly accruing a long list of
achievements. Susanna developed the
school’s first coding club and also fa-
cilitated a Lindamood-Bell literary
intervention group. She is also the pri-
mary leader for the school’s Culture
Project Week, a program that uses
project-based activities to strengthen
relationships among students, faculty,
and community. Her devotion to edu-
cating future generations has bene-
fitted not only Belle Point, but the en-
tire school district. In addition to serv-
ing on the district’s secondary math
curriculum development team, she also
created an ACT prep program in col-
laboration with other district leaders.
Susanna’s leadership is equally evident
in the classroom, where she imple-
mented a unique project-based learning
approach using her experience from the
business world.
Her passion for and commitment to
education is demonstrated by her own
education. She completed two master’s
programs while teaching at Belle
Point. In 2017, she earned a master’s
degree in secondary education and
teaching from the University of Cen-
tral Arkansas. In 2020, she received a
master’s in rural and urban school
leadership from the University of Ar-
kansas at Little Rock.
I would like to offer my congratula-
tions to Susanna Post for her deter-
mination, devotion, and commitment
to her students and to education. I am
encouraged by her efforts to inspire our
next generation of leaders and her
drive to help them succeed.∑
f
REMEMBERING SEAN HIGGINS
∑ Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam Presi-
dent, I rise to recognize a lifelong Ne-
vadan and a friend to all he knew, Sean
Higgins.
Sean was a dedicated member of our
community, an unmistakable presence,
and a tireless champion and advocate
for our gaming industry and small
businesses in Nevada. He was born in
Chicago in 1964, but raised in Las
Vegas, 1 of 10 siblings—5 brothers and 5
sisters. His father, Dr. Gerald Higgins,
was an orthopedic surgeon and doctor
for the Rebels, the University of Ne-
vada, Las Vegas football team. Sean
graduated from Bishop Gorman High
School. He left Nevada only briefly for
his education, obtaining a degree in
business administration from Southern
Methodist University and a law degree
from Santa Clara University School of
Law.
Sean and I grew up in Las Vegas
when it was a much smaller town of
330,000 people, so perhaps our paths
were always destined to cross. We met
in the 6th grade when we attended
Matt Kelly Elementary School to-
gether. Even then, Sean had a pres-
ence, with his distinctive voice and
outgoing personality. He was friendly,
charming—yes, even at 11 years old—
and made you want to hang out with
him. And so we did, spending time at
pool parties and dancing to the band
‘‘Hot Chocolate.’’ Over the years our
paths diverged, but his focus, like
mine, was on returning to Las Vegas
and the State we loved to practice law.
Sean represented clients both large
and small to State gaming regulators
and government bodies across the Sil-
ver State. Everyone knew Sean for his
gregarious nature and his booming
voice, which made him a fierce advo-
cate for championing the causes of his
clients. He spent 17 years as general
counsel of Herbst Gaming, a multi-
jurisdictional casino operator in Ne-
vada that became Affinity Gaming in
2011, and where his sister, Mary Beth
Higgins, now serves as CEO. He served
as executive-vice president of govern-
ment affairs for Golden Entertainment,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.200 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6595
October 25, 2020
a casino company and slot machine
route operator, and became a partner
at the Gordon Silver Law firm. He be-
came a small business owner himself,
operating a popular gaming pub with
two of his brothers and founding his
own law firm, STH Strategies, in 2015.
We reunited in our professional ca-
reers in Carson City when I was work-
ing for Governor Miller and he was ad-
vocating for taverns and gaming. The
best part, he was still the same Sean
Higgins I met in the 6th grade—friend-
ly, charming, and yes, he made you
want to hang out with him. So I did.
For the last 20 years as our profes-
sional careers converged, I had the op-
portunity to watch Sean as he advo-
cated for the town he loved and the
businesses that made us a success, all
the while smoking cigars and enjoying
a good meal with the friends he cul-
tivated along the way.
I will miss my friend, and I am grate-
ful I got to talk with him to say good-
bye, to tell him that I loved him. Dur-
ing our conversation, his main concern
was for his family. Sean loved Lynn
and cherished his children Samantha
and Connor. He was so proud of them.
I experienced this firsthand when he
came to Washington to visit Connor,
who was working as an intern on the
Senate Committee for Environment
and Public Works. In every conversa-
tion, Sean would talk about his amaz-
ing children.
I ask my colleagues to join me in re-
membering my friend and fellow Ne-
vadan, Sean Higgins, for his advocacy
and legal acumen. Sean will not soon
be replaced in the Las Vegas commu-
nity or in the gaming industry in Ne-
vada. I offer my deepest condolences to
his wife Lynn, his children Connor and
Samantha, and the many friends who
knew him well.∑
f
REMEMBERING COLONEL DUANE
A. KUHLMANN
∑ Mr. JONES. Madam President, I rise
today to remember Col. Duane A.
Kuhlmann, a longtime resident of
Spanish Fort, AL, who died on Sep-
tember 23, 2020. It is with humility and
sadness that we pause to mark the
passing of yet another member of the
‘‘greatest generation,’’ a brave and
dedicated patriot, a leader, and a be-
loved husband and father.
Born to first-generation Americans
in Iowa and raised in Byron, MN,
Duane volunteered for the Army Air
Corps at age 19, soon after the Pearl
Harbor bombing. After a medical issue
delayed his training, Duane joined the
fight in the Pacific in 1944 flying the P–
40, before closing out the war in the P–
51. After the Japanese surrender, he
spent the next year as part of the U.S.
occupation of Japan. Soon after return-
ing stateside, Duane married Dorothy
Guenther, and together they had seven
children, two of whom served their
country as officers in the U.S. Navy.
After the war, Duane continued to fly
the P–51 and was a demonstration pilot
for his squadron. Later he and his
squadron transitioned to jets, flying
the F–84. His squadron was ordered to
join the Korean conflict, but after
prepositioning in Japan they were or-
dered back to Turner Air Force Base in
Georgia. Duane’s Air Force career took
the family to Albany, GA; Ephrata,
WA; Wiesbaden, Germany; Mont-
gomery, AL; Sumter, SC; San Antonio,
TX; and finally Dayton, OH.
During the Vietnam conflict, Duane
led his squadron of RB–66 aircraft
across the Pacific to provide electronic
and reconnaissance support for our
troops. Two years later, he led the
same squadron to Vietnam for a second
tour of duty, this time providing
‘recce’ support flying the RF–4 phan-
tom over Hanoi and Haiphong harbor.
Colonel Kuhlmann retired from the
Air Force in 1974 in Dayton, OH, as vice
commander of Defense Electronics Sys-
tems Command. He was awarded the
Legion of Merit in 1974 and accumu-
lated numerous air medals throughout
his distinguished career.
My wife Louise and I extend our grat-
itude for Colonel Kulhmann’s service,
as well as our condolences for his loss
to his children John Kuhlmann and his
wife Rosie, Jenny Kuhlmann Zinn and
her husband Bob, Tom Kuhlmann,
Karen Sher and her husband Andy,
Fritzie Kuhlmann Bassel and her hus-
band Steve, Greg Kuhlmann and his
wife Stephanie, Chris Kuhlmann and
his wife Dani, and to his 19 grand-
children an 24 great grandchildren.
Though not a native son, Duane
chose to spend the last years of his life
in Alabama, joining the roughly 400,000
other veterans living there whose serv-
ice and sacrifices have brought honor
to our great State.
Colonel Kuhlmann, after a life well-
lived, may you rest in peace.∑
f
REMEMBERING SID HARTMAN
∑ Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
today I rise to honor and pay tribute to
Sid Hartman, a sports journalist and a
Minnesota legend who passed away on
October 18, 2020, at age 100.
Born in 1920 on the north side of Min-
neapolis, Sid Hartman was born to be a
newspaperman. He began selling news-
papers when he was 9 years old and
even pioneered the use of newspaper
boxes where customers would pay by
leaving coins in a change box. Sid
would ride his bicycle to Newspaper
Alley, where he would buy 100 copies of
the Minneapolis Star, the Journal, and
the Morning Tribune for $1.10 and then
sell them for two cents apiece.
That is how Sid got his start in busi-
ness, but his big break came when Dick
Cullum, the sports editor at the Min-
neapolis Times, hired him to work on
the sports desk in 1944. And during his
tenure, Sid’s columns were a big reason
why people bought the newspaper. Sid
went on to become the unofficial gen-
eral manager for the Minneapolis
Lakers and helped secure a Major
League Baseball team for Minneapolis.
Since 2010, a statue of Sid holding a
newspaper and microphone has stood
near the corner of Sixth Street and
First Avenue North in Minneapolis, a
fitting tribute to his legacy outside of
the Target Center and the Minnesota
Twins’ Target Field.
Sid was also a popular radio person-
ality on WCCO Radio. I know I will
never forget the day at the Minnesota
State Fair WCCO Radio booth when we
both appeared on the Dave Lee show
for the annual ‘‘Minnesota Hospital’’
soap opera spoof skit, where I was
given the role of Nurse Helen and Sid
played the infamous ‘‘Dr. Kidney Hart-
man.’’
Sid knew everyone. His 1996 auto-
biography, titled: ‘‘Sid! The Sports
Legends, the Inside Scoops and the
Close Personal Friends,’’ was endorsed
by some of the biggest names in sports,
from legendary Vikings coach Bud
Grant to Arnold Palmer, Wayne
Gretzky, Ted Williams, Bob Costas, and
George Steinbrenner. Nobody had bet-
ter relationships in the sports world
than Sid.
Ten years after the book’s release,
the Star Tribune published ‘‘Sid Hart-
man’s Great Minnesota Sports Mo-
ments’’ featuring this quote from Tom
Brokaw: ‘‘I grew up on Sid Hartman
columns about my Midwestern sports
heroes and I still think of him as a Hall
of Fame newspaperman.’’
My dad, a future newspaperman him-
self, first met Sid in 1945 while Sid was
covering the Minnesota high school
basketball championship game. My dad
was playing for his hometown high
school team Ely, a small town on Min-
nesota’s Iron Range, and they were up
against Patrick Henry High School, a
powerhouse that had only lost one
game that season. As soon as my dad
got off the bus, Sid stuck a microphone
in his face and said, ‘‘You don’t have a
chance. How are you going to win?’’
Sid was right, and Ely lost 66–35.
Years later, my dad started writing
for the Associated Press and then for
the Star Tribune. He and Sid got to
know each other well. They were fierce
competitors, but had respect for each
other’s drive and work.
Throughout Sid’s career, he never
had any plans to quit. He was always
driven to get the scoop. He was relent-
less. At the time of his death, he was
still writing three or four columns a
week. In fact, Sid produced 21,235
bylined stories from 1944 to 2020. In his
final column, he wrote: ‘‘Writing a col-
umn as I turn 100 years old is hard to
believe.’’ But for all who knew Sid, it
wasn’t hard for any of us to believe.
My prayers and condolences go out to
Sid’s son Chad, his daughter Chris, and
his entire family. It is hard to be sur-
prised when someone dies at age 100,
but Sid was someone who just never
stopped loving his work and our State.
We miss you, Sid.
Thank you.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.198 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6596 October 25, 2020
TRIBUTE TO OFFICER ROBINSON
DESROCHES
∑ Mr. PAUL. Madam President, I rise
today to honor one of Louisville’s fin-
est, Louisville Metro Police Officer
Robinson Desroches, who was shot on
September 23, 2020, during the protest
in Louisville. Fortunately, he is ex-
pected to make a full recovery. I join
my fellow Kentuckians in wishing Offi-
cer Desroches a speedy recovery.
Police work is an unquestionably dif-
ficult and dangerous job, but it is
among the noblest callings. Each and
every day, officers risk their lives to
keep our communities safe. Officers
such as Louisville Metro Police Officer
Robinson Desroches meet the chal-
lenges they encounter every day with
professionalism, class, and courage. Of-
ficer Desroches joined the LMPD in
2019.
Serving to keep the peace in Louis-
ville during a time of uncertainty, Offi-
cer Desroches has served his commu-
nity with class and courage during this
difficult time. Dedicated service from
officers like Officer Desroches during
times of protest is important to keep
protests peaceful instead of a riot. Offi-
cer Desroches and his fellow officers
deserve and have our respect and admi-
ration.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MAJOR AUBREY
GREGORY
∑ Mr. PAUL. Madam President, I rise
today to honor one of Louisville’s fin-
est, Louisville Metro Police Major Au-
brey Gregory, who was shot on Sep-
tember 23, 2020, during the protest in
Louisville. Fortunately, Major Gregory
is expected to make a full recovery. I
join my fellow Kentuckians in wishing
Major Gregory a speedy recovery.
Police work is an unquestionably dif-
ficult and dangerous job, but it is
among the noblest callings. Each and
every day, officers risk their lives to
keep our communities safe. Officers
such as Louisville Metro Police Major
Aubrey Gregory meet the challenges
they encounter every day with profes-
sionalism, class, and courage. Major
Gregory joined the LMPD in 1999 and
leads the Louisville Metro Police Spe-
cial Operations Unit.
Serving to keep the peace in Louis-
ville during a time of uncertainty,
Major Gregory has led his fellow offi-
cers with class and courage during this
difficult time. Dedicated service from
officers like Major Gregory during
times of protest is important to keep
protests peaceful instead of a riot.
Major Gregory and his fellow officers
deserve and have our respect and admi-
ration.∑
f
200TH ANNIVERSARY OF
LYNNVILLE, KENTUCKY
∑ Mr. PAUL. Madam President,
Lynnville is a tiny community in far
western Kentucky. Its 200-year his-
tory—which will be celebrated this
year by the placement of a Kentucky
Historical Society marker—has much
to teach us as we face the struggles of
the year 2020. Lynnville became a set-
tlement even before Graves County was
founded and endured the Civil War, the
Black Patch Tobacco War of the early
20th century, two town fires that com-
pletely destroyed local commerce, and
even the fiery destruction of its post
office, about which The Courier-Jour-
nal wrote that ‘‘nothing remains but
the postmaster himself.’’ After each
bout of catastrophic loss, Lynnville’s
businesses, farmers, preachers, and
neighbors rebuilt structurally and re-
captured their beloved community.
Their history of resilience and recovery
is a refreshing and poignant reminder
to us all—from within the tiniest
towns to our Nation’s finest cities—of
the resilience that formed, nurtured,
and sustains our country. Thank you,
Lynnville, KY, for being a symbol of
this important value, and congratula-
tions on the celebration of your 200th
anniversary.∑
f
REMEMBERING DAVE SPANGLER
∑ Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President, I
want to recognize and celebrate the life
of a friend and a true champion of our
Great Lakes, whom we sadly lost re-
cently at age 74.
Captain Dave Spangler was a true
leader in the Great Lakes community.
He was a captain for Dr. Bugs Charters
and vice president of the Lake Erie
Charter Boat Captain Association.
Dave grew up fishing with his father on
the Maumee River and started fishing
in Lake Erie in the late 1970s, so it is
no surprise that he became known as
the expert on finding the ‘‘hot spots,’’
or knowing the best techniques to
catch big walleye and perch. He won
many awards for his expertise. He was
named Charter Boat Captain of the
Year in 2014.
I first met Captain Dave during one
of my annual fishing trips on Lake Erie
more than a decade ago. Dave would
also come to Washington, DC, for meet-
ings, but he and I both knew we would
both rather be out on his boat.
What impressed me most about Dave
is that he was not only an expert
among the fishing community but that
he was also unafraid to get his hands
dirty—literally—in other issues im-
pacting the Great Lakes, especially his
beloved Lake Erie. He devoted the last
several decades of his life to protecting
and improving the entire health of the
Great Lakes. Where most boaters
would try to avoid the green, foul odor
of toxic algal blooms that sometimes
plague the lakes, Dave drove straight
into them—to take samples, track the
movement of the bloom, and work to
develop solutions. Whether it was
harmful algal blooms, Asian carp, or
pollution impacting the lakes, Dave ea-
gerly became an expert on all of them.
Not only did I turn to him for his
knowledge and advice on these issues,
but I also admired Dave’s ability to
bring people together to find solutions,
especially in such a divided world that
we live in today.
Dave had a strong conviction and de-
voted purpose to protecting the lakes,
but he also had a warm and light-
hearted demeanor, with a contagious
laugh and smile. I will miss my friend,
and he will be deeply missed by so
many in the Great Lakes community,
including those who may have never
met him but are able to enjoy the
beautiful lakes thanks to his efforts.
While Dave is no longer with us in
person, his passion for protecting the
Great Lakes will continue to inspire us
all.
Rest in Peace, Captain Dave.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
and a withdrawal which were referred
to the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. CARPER):
S. 4859. A bill to require the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services to make rec-
ommendations for improving maternal and
child health outcomes using remote physio-
logic monitoring devices and expanding cov-
erage of such devices under Medicaid; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. 4860. A bill to exempt payments made
from the Railroad Unemployment Insurance
Account from sequestration under the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985; to the Committee on the Budget.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. CRAPO, and Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN):
S. 4861. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to reform certain forfeiture pro-
cedures, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. CRAMER,
and Mr. CRUZ):
S. 4862. A bill to amend the National Envi-
ronmental Policy Act of 1969 to impose time
limits on the completion of certain required
actions under the Act, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW):
S. 4863. A bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to provide States with the
option to provide coordinated care through a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.203 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6597
October 25, 2020
pregnancy medical home for high-risk preg-
nant women, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. BROWN:
S. 4864. A bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to improve access to adult
vaccines under Medicaid; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 4865. A bill to improve the full-service
community school program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
TOOMEY):
S. 4866. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to modernize
Federal nursing home protections and to en-
hance care quality and transparency for
nursing home residents and their families; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. COONS (for himself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. 4867. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to support re-
search on, and expanded access to, investiga-
tional drugs for amyotrophic lateral scle-
rosis, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Ms. SMITH):
S. 4868. A bill to allow eligible entities
under part B of title IV of the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to use
subgrant funds for activities authorized
under such part, regardless of whether such
activities are conducted during nonschool
hours or periods when school is not in ses-
sion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 4869. A bill to require software market-
place operators and owners of covered for-
eign software to provide consumers with a
warning prior to the download of such soft-
ware, to establish consumer data protec-
tions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, and Ms. STABENOW):
S. 4870. A bill to rename the Saint Law-
rence Seaway Development Corporation the
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Develop-
ment Corporation; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
GRASSLEY):
S. 4871. A bill to authorize the establish-
ment and maintenance of a website and pro-
vide adequate financial resources for a more
transparent Inspector General community;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 4872. A bill to prohibit the trading of the
securities of certain Communist Chinese
military companies on a national securities
exchange, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mr.
KAINE, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina,
Mr. TILLIS, and Mr. COONS):
S. 4873. A bill to authorize the Minority
Business Development Agency of the Depart-
ment of Commerce to establish business cen-
ters at historically Black colleges and uni-
versities, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
JOHNSON):
S. 4874. A bill to improve the U.S. Immi-
gration and Customs Enforcement Homeland
Security Investigations’ Visa Security Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LEE:
S. 4875. A bill to provide protections for
good faith borrowers and lenders under the
paycheck protection program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, and Mr. TILLIS):
S. 4876. A bill to provide that the Federal
Trade Commission shall exercise authority
with respect to mergers only under the Clay-
ton Act and only in the same procedural
manner as the Attorney General exercises
such authority, and to require the Federal
Communications Commission to approve or
deny a license transfer application within 180
days of submission; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO:
S. 4877. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish a refundable
tax credit to help middle class taxpayers; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 4878. A bill to recover economic impact
payments made to holders of nonimmigrant
visas, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. RISCH, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. COTTON, and Mr. SCOTT of
South Carolina):
S. 4879. A bill to curtail the use of changes
in mandatory programs affecting the Crime
Victims Fund to inflate spending; to the
Committee on the Budget.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. COONS, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. SANDERS,
Ms. WARREN, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 4880. A bill to protect our democracy by
preventing abuses of presidential power, re-
storing checks and balances and account-
ability and transparency in government, and
defending elections against foreign inter-
ference, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. RISCH, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Mr. CARDIN):
S. Res. 760. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the atrocities per-
petrated by the Government of the People’s
Republic of China against Uyghurs, ethnic
Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members of other Mus-
lim minority groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur
Autonomous Region constitutes genocide; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
WARREN, and Mrs. MURRAY):
S. Res. 761. A resolution recognizing the
month of October 2020 as Filipino American
History Month and celebrating the history
and culture of Filipino Americans and their
immense contributions to the United States;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mrs.
MURRAY):
S. Res. 762. A resolution recognizing the
disproportionate impact of COVID–19 on
women and girls globally; to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and
Mr. GRASSLEY):
S. Res. 763. A resolution supporting the
designation of October 2020 as ‘‘National
Substance Abuse Prevention Month’’; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. DAINES, Mr. BOOZMAN, and
Mr. TESTER):
S. Res. 764. A resolution designating Octo-
ber 26, 2020, as the ‘‘Day of the Deployed’’; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. KING, Mr.
BOOZMAN, and Mrs. CAPITO):
S. Res. 765. A resolution calling on Con-
gress, schools, and State and local edu-
cational agencies to recognize the signifi-
cant educational implications of dyslexia
that must be addressed, and designating Oc-
tober 2020 as ‘‘National Dyslexia Awareness
Month’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. CRAMER, Ms. MCSALLY,
Mr. RISCH, Mr. CRAPO, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. BARRASSO,
Mr. ENZI, and Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. Res. 766. A resolution honoring the indi-
viduals fighting and the individuals who
have fallen responding to wildland fires dur-
ing the ongoing 2020 wildfire season; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself
and Mr. RUBIO):
S. Res. 767. A resolution congratulating the
Tampa Bay Lightning for winning the 2020
Stanley Cup Final; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 947
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 947, a bill to amend the
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act
to improve compensation for workers
involved in uranium mining, and for
other purposes.
S. 1015
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1015, a bill to require the Director
of the Office of Management and Budg-
et to review and make certain revisions
to the Standard Occupational Classi-
fication System, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1311
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1311, a bill to provide lasting pro-
tection for inventoried roadless areas
within the National Forest System.
S. 1418
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1418, a bill to establish
the Strength in Diversity Program,
and for other purposes.
S. 1969
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.208 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6598 October 25, 2020
1969, a bill to authorize the Fallen
Journalists Memorial Foundation to
establish a commemorative work in
the District of Columbia and its envi-
rons, and for other purposes.
S. 2112
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2112, a bill to enhance the rights of do-
mestic workers, and for other purposes.
S. 2633
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from New Jer-
sey (Mr. BOOKER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2633, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide coverage for wigs as durable
medical equipment under the Medicare
program, and for other purposes.
S. 2671
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2671, a bill to build safer, thriving
communities, and save lives by invest-
ing in effective violence reduction ini-
tiatives.
S. 2673
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2673, a bill to amend title 10,
United States Code, to provide for eat-
ing disorders treatment for members
and certain former members of the uni-
formed services, and dependents of
such members, and for other purposes.
S. 2842
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2842, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act and
the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 to ex-
pand and expedite access to cardiac re-
habilitation programs and pulmonary
rehabilitation programs under the
Medicare program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 3613
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
3613, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to strengthen existing
benefits for certain descendants of vet-
erans exposed to herbicide agents, and
for other purposes.
S. 4190
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
4190, a bill to authorize the Director of
the United States Geological Survey to
establish a regional program to assess,
monitor, and benefit the hydrology of
saline lakes in the Great Basin and the
migratory birds and other wildlife de-
pendent on those habitats, and for
other purposes.
S. 4613
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) and the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 4613, a bill to amend
the Fairness to Contact Lens Con-
sumers Act to prevent certain auto-
mated calls and to require notice of the
availability of contact lens prescrip-
tions to patients, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 4715
At the request of Mr. ROUNDS, the
names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mrs. LOEFFLER) and the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 4715, a bill to grant Fed-
eral charter to the National American
Indian Veterans, Incorporated.
S. 4717
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
4717, a bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to streamline en-
rollment of certain Medicaid providers
across State lines, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 4720
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 4720, a bill to amend the Motor
Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999
to modify certain agricultural exemp-
tions for hours of service requirements,
and for other purposes.
S. 4730
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the names of the Senator from West
Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO), the Senator
from New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
TOOMEY) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 4730, a bill to amend
title 31, United States Code, to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
and issue quarter dollars in commemo-
ration of the Nineteenth Amendment,
and for other purposes.
S. 4757
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) and the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 4757, a bill to amend the
Animal Welfare Act to establish addi-
tional requirements for dealers, and for
other purposes.
S. 4777
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
4777, a bill to restore leave lost by Fed-
eral employees during certain public
health emergencies, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 4791
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 4791, a bill to provide
for a Community-Based Emergency and
Non-Emergency Response Grant Pro-
gram.
S. 4805
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. GRASS-
LEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
4805, a bill to create a point of order
against legislation modifying the num-
ber of Justices of the Supreme Court of
the United States.
S.J. RES. 76
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. GRASS-
LEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.J.
Res. 76, a joint resolution proposing an
amendment to the Constitution of the
United States to require that the Su-
preme Court of the United States be
composed of nine justices.
S. RES. 684
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) and the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 684, a resolution
calling on the Government of Cam-
eroon and separatist armed groups
from the English-speaking Northwest
and Southwest regions to end all vio-
lence, respect the human rights of all
Cameroonians, and pursue a genuinely
inclusive dialogue toward resolving the
ongoing civil conflict in Anglophone
Cameroon.
S. RES. 689
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 689, a resolution con-
demning the crackdown on peaceful
protestors in Belarus and calling for
the imposition of sanctions on respon-
sible officials.
S. RES. 754
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 754, a resolution requesting infor-
mation on the Government of Azer-
baijan’s human rights practices pursu-
ant to section 502B(c) of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961.
S. RES. 755
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 755, a resolution requesting infor-
mation on the Government of Turkey’s
human rights practices pursuant to
section 502B(c) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 760—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT THE ATROCITIES
PERPETRATED BY THE GOVERN-
MENT OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUB-
LIC OF CHINA AGAINST
UYGHURS, ETHNIC KAZAKHS,
KYRGYZ, AND MEMBERS OF
OTHER MUSLIM MINORITY
GROUPS IN THE XINJIANG
UYGHUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
CONSTITUTES GENOCIDE
Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. RISCH, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Mr. CARDIN) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.206 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6599
October 25, 2020
S. RES. 760
Whereas Article 2 of the 1948 United Na-
tions Convention on the Prevention and Pun-
ishment of the Crime of Genocide, which
both the United States and the People’s Re-
public of China have ratified, defines geno-
cide as ‘‘any of the following acts committed
with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a
national, ethnical, racial or religious group,
as such: (a) killing members of the group; (b)
causing serious bodily or mental harm to
members of the group; (c) deliberately in-
flicting on the group conditions of life, cal-
culated to bring about its physical destruc-
tion in whole or in part; (d) imposing meas-
ures intended to prevent births within the
group; [or] forcibly transferring children of
the group to another group.’’;
Whereas the Elie Wiesel Genocide and
Atrocities Prevention Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115–441) states that it is the policy of
the United States to ‘‘regard the prevention
of atrocities as in its national interest’’;
Whereas, since 2017, the Government of the
People’s Republic of China has detained an
estimated 1,800,000 Turkic Muslims, mostly
Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and mem-
bers of other Muslim minority groups, in in-
ternment camps without due process;
Whereas detained Uyghurs, ethnic
Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members of other Mus-
lim minority groups are tortured, coerced to
disavow their religious beliefs and cultural
practices, compelled to work in forced labor
programs, and, in some cases, raped, sub-
jected to involuntary forced abortion, steri-
lization, and forced organ harvesting;
Whereas, as a direct result of the Govern-
ment of the People’s Republic of China’s tar-
geted and coercive population control cam-
paign against Uyghurs, the birthrate of the
Uyghur population in Xinjiang Uyghur Au-
tonomous Region plummeted by 24 percent
from 2017 to 2018, with birthrates in the
Uyghur majority regions of Hotan and
Kashgar decreasing by more than 60 percent
from 2015 to 2018;
Whereas sterilization rates in Xinjiang
grew seven-fold from 2016 to 2018 to more
than 60,000 procedures;
Whereas, in 2018, 80 percent of all net added
IUD placements in China (calculated as
placements minus removals) were performed
in Xinjiang, despite the fact that the region
only makes up 1.8 percent of the nation’s
population;
Whereas nearly 500,000 Muslim children in
Xinjiang have been forcibly separated from
their families and subjected to indoctrina-
tion and inhumane and degrading treatment
in state-run boarding schools;
Whereas, since 2017, the Government of the
People’s Republic of China has destroyed or
damaged approximately 16,000 mosques and
over 30 percent of Islamic shrines, ceme-
teries, and pilgrimage routes across the
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region;
Whereas Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz,
and members of other Muslim minority
groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous
Region are subjected to constant, unwar-
ranted, and intrusive mass surveillance
through the use of new and emerging tech-
nologies, including facial recognition soft-
ware, artificial intelligence, and genetic
testing;
Whereas, between 2017 and 2019, an esti-
mated 80,000 Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs,
Kyrgyz, and members of other Muslim mi-
nority groups were forcibly transferred out
of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region to
work in factories across China, which raises
serious concerns of forced labor being used in
global supply chains; and
Whereas the policies of the Government of
the People’s Republic of China are in con-
travention of international human rights in-
struments signed by that government, in-
cluding—
(1) the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights, which the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China has signed but not
yet ratified;
(2) the International Covenant on Eco-
nomic, Social, and Cultural Rights, ratified
by the People’s Republic of China in 2001;
and
(3) the United Nations Protocol to Prevent,
Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons,
Especially Women and Children (Palermo
Protocol), to which the People’s Republic of
China has been a state party since February
2010: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) declares that the atrocities perpetrated
by the Government of the People’s Republic
of China against Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs,
Kyrgyz, and members of other Muslim mi-
nority groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur Auton-
omous Region constitute genocide;
(2) demands that the Government of the
People’s Republic of China immediately—
(A) adhere to its commitments under the
1948 United Nations Convention on the Pre-
vention and Punishment of the Crime of
Genocide;
(B) halt the genocide it is perpetrating
against Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz,
and members of other Muslim minority
groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous
Region;
(C) release individuals from internment
camps, forced labor programs, and state-run
boarding schools;
(D) reunite families and rebuild or repair
mosques; and
(E) guarantee freedom of religion, includ-
ing Islam;
(3) urges the Administration to take all ap-
propriate measures, including working with
like-minded states and multilateral coali-
tions, to compel, induce, or otherwise oblige
the Government of the People’s Republic of
China to immediately take the actions de-
scribed in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of
paragraph (2);
(4) urges all national governments and
international organizations, including the
United Nations and its Office of the Sec-
retary-General, to call the Government of
the People’s Republic of China’s atrocity
crimes by their rightful name: ‘‘genocide’’;
(5) urges the Permanent Representative of
the United States to the United Nations to
take steps to coordinate with other members
of the United Nations to enact measures to
prevent atrocity crimes by the Government
of the People’s Republic of China, and to
punish those responsible for these ongoing
crimes, including by the collection and pres-
ervation of evidence, imposing sanctions
against perpetrators, and if necessary, the
establishment and operation of appropriate
tribunals;
(6) urges member states of the United Na-
tions to use their votes to bar the Govern-
ment of the People’s Republic of China from
membership of any United Nations councils
or other component overseeing human rights
until an independent commission established
by the United Nations verifies that the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China has returned to ad-
hering to its commitments under the 1948
United Nations Convention on the Preven-
tion and Punishment of the Crime of Geno-
cide; and
(7) encourages the United States Govern-
ment and United States companies to lead
global coalitions ensuring businesses are not
enabling, supporting, or profiting off the
mass surveillance and forced labor, which is
a form of human trafficking, of Uyghurs,
ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and members of
other Muslim minority groups in China.
SENATE RESOLUTION 761—RECOG-
NIZING THE MONTH OF OCTOBER
2020 AS FILIPINO AMERICAN HIS-
TORY MONTH AND CELEBRATING
THE HISTORY AND CULTURE OF
FILIPINO AMERICANS AND THEIR
IMMENSE CONTRIBUTIONS TO
THE UNITED STATES
Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. BOOKER,
Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. KAINE, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ,
Ms. SMITH, Ms. WARREN, and Mrs. MUR-
RAY) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 761
Whereas the earliest documented Filipino
presence in the continental United States
was October 18, 1587, when the first ‘‘Luzones
Indios’’ arrived in Morro Bay, California, on
board the Nuestra Señora de Esperanza, a
Manila-built galleon ship;
Whereas the Filipino American National
Historical Society recognizes 1763 as the year
in which the first permanent Filipino settle-
ment in the United States was established in
St. Malo, Louisiana;
Whereas the recognition of the first perma-
nent Filipino settlement in the United
States adds a new perspective to the history
of the United States by bringing attention to
the economic, cultural, social, and other no-
table contributions made by Filipino Ameri-
cans to the development of the United
States;
Whereas the Filipino American community
is the third largest Asian American and Pa-
cific Islander group in the United States,
with a population of approximately 4,100,000;
Whereas, from the Civil War to the Iraq
and Afghanistan conflicts, Filipinos and Fili-
pino Americans have a longstanding history
of serving in the Armed Forces of the United
States;
Whereas more than 250,000 Filipinos fought
under the United States flag during World
War II to protect and defend the United
States in the Pacific theater;
Whereas a guarantee to pay back the serv-
ice of Filipinos through veterans benefits
was reversed by the First Supplemental Sur-
plus Appropriation Rescission Act, 1946 (Pub-
lic Law 79–301; 60 Stat. 6) and the Second
Supplemental Surplus Appropriation Rescis-
sion Act, 1946 (Public Law 79–391; 60 Stat.
221), which provided that the wartime service
of members of the Commonwealth Army of
the Philippines and the new Philippine
Scouts shall not be deemed to have been ac-
tive service, and, therefore, those members
did not qualify for certain benefits;
Whereas 26,000 Filipino World War II vet-
erans were granted United States citizenship
as a result of the Immigration Act of 1990
(Public Law 101–649; 104 Stat. 4978), which
was signed into law by President George
H.W. Bush on November 29, 1990;
Whereas, on February 17, 2009, President
Barack Obama signed into law the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub-
lic Law 111–5; 123 Stat. 115), which estab-
lished the Filipino Veterans Equity Com-
pensation Fund to compensate Filipino
World War II veterans for their service to the
United States;
Whereas, since June 8, 2016, the Filipino
World War II Veterans Parole Program has
allowed Filipino World War II veterans and
certain family members to be reunited more
expeditiously than the immigrant visa proc-
ess allowed at that time, but, on August 2,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.211 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6600 October 25, 2020
2019, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Serv-
ices announced its intention to terminate
the program;
Whereas, on December 14, 2016, President
Barack Obama signed into law the Filipino
Veterans of World War II Congressional Gold
Medal Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–265; 130
Stat. 1376) to award Filipino veterans who
fought alongside troops of the United States
in World War II the highest civilian honor
bestowed by Congress;
Whereas, on October 25, 2017, the Congres-
sional Gold Medal was presented to Filipino
World War II veterans in Emancipation Hall
in the Capitol Building, a recognition for
which the veterans had waited for more than
70 years;
Whereas Filipino Americans have received
the Congressional Medal of Honor, the high-
est award for valor in action against an
enemy force that may be bestowed on an in-
dividual serving in the Armed Forces, and
continue to demonstrate a commendable
sense of patriotism and honor in the Armed
Forces;
Whereas the late Thelma Garcia
Buchholdt, born in Claveria, Cagayan, on the
island of Luzon in the Philippines—
(1) moved with her family to Alaska in
1965;
(2) was elected to the House of Representa-
tives of Alaska in 1974;
(3) was the first Filipino woman elected to
a State legislature; and
(4) authored a comprehensive history book
entitled ‘‘Filipinos in Alaska: 1788–1958’’;
Whereas Filipino American farmworkers
and labor leaders, such as Philip Vera Cruz
and Larry Itliong, played an integral role in
the multiethnic United Farm Workers move-
ment, alongside Cesar Chávez, Dolores
Huerta, and other Latino workers;
Whereas, on April 25, 2012, President
Barack Obama nominated Lorna G.
Schofield to be a United States District
Judge for the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York, and
she was confirmed by the Senate on Decem-
ber 13, 2012, to be the first Filipino American
in United States history to serve as an Arti-
cle III Federal judge;
Whereas Filipino Americans play an inte-
gral role on the frontlines of the COVID–19
pandemic in the healthcare system of the
United States as nurses, doctors, first re-
sponders, and other medical professionals;
Whereas Filipino Americans contribute
greatly to music, dance, literature, edu-
cation, business, journalism, sports, fashion,
politics, government, science, technology,
the fine arts, and other fields that enrich the
United States;
Whereas, as mandated in the mission state-
ment of the Filipino American National His-
torical Society, efforts should continue to
promote the study of Filipino American his-
tory and culture because the roles of Filipino
Americans and other people of color have
largely been overlooked in the writing,
teaching, and learning of the history of the
United States;
Whereas it is imperative for Filipino
American youth to have positive role models
to instill—
(1) the significance of education, com-
plemented by the richness of Filipino Amer-
ican ethnicity; and
(2) the value of the Filipino American leg-
acy; and
Whereas it is essential to promote the un-
derstanding, education, and appreciation of
the history and culture of Filipino Ameri-
cans in the United States: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the celebration of Filipino
American History Month in October 2020 as—
(A) a testament to the advancement of Fil-
ipino Americans;
(B) a time to reflect on and remember the
many notable contributions that Filipino
Americans have made to the United States;
and
(C) a time to renew efforts toward the re-
search and examination of history and cul-
ture so as to provide an opportunity for all
people of the United States to learn more
about Filipino Americans and to appreciate
the historic contributions of Filipino Ameri-
cans to the United States; and
(2) urges the people of the United States to
observe Filipino American History Month
with appropriate programs and activities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 762—RECOG-
NIZING THE DISPROPORTIONATE
IMPACT OF COVID–19 ON WOMEN
AND GIRLS GLOBALLY
Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mrs.
MURRAY) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 762
Whereas the COVID–19 crisis exacerbates
existing vulnerabilities for women and girls
and has an outsized effect on health, safety,
and livelihoods for marginalized commu-
nities;
Whereas it is estimated that the disruption
of sexual and reproductive health care serv-
ices and supply chains caused by the COVID–
19 crisis caused an estimated 49,000,000
women to stop using contraceptives between
April and October 2020, likely resulting in
approximately 7,000,000 unintended preg-
nancies, 1,700,000 major obstetric complica-
tions, 28,000 maternal deaths, 168,000 newborn
deaths, and 3,300,000 unsafe abortions;
Whereas lockdowns, quarantines, and other
movement restrictions related to COVID–19
have disrupted access to legal and social
services, as well as access to counseling, safe
shelters, and medical treatment, exacer-
bating vulnerabilities for women and girls;
Whereas gender-based violence such as do-
mestic violence, child marriage, and female
genital mutilation has increased, and is ex-
pected to continue to increase, as a result of
the COVID–19 crisis, including—
(1) an estimated 31,000,000 more gender-
based violence cases between April and Octo-
ber 2020;
(2) an additional 13,000,000 child marriages
by 2030; and
(3) an increase of approximately 2,000,000
cases of female genital mutilation between
2020 and 2030;
Whereas women play significant roles in
the health care workforce, comprising 70 per-
cent of health care workers globally, yet
often are not prioritized for the receipt of
personal protective equipment, dispropor-
tionately exposing them to contracting
COVID–19;
Whereas women and girls perform 3 times
the amount of unpaid care work in homes
and in their communities as men, a burden
that has increased during the COVID–19 cri-
sis as women and girls are disproportion-
ately responsible for caring for sick and el-
derly family and community members and
children who are out of school, limiting the
ability of women and girls to perform in-
come-generating work, pursue education or
skills building, or avoid exposure to COVID–
19;
Whereas, globally, women living in poverty
will endure specific economic effects as a re-
sult of the COVID–19 crisis, largely due to
the overrepresentation of those women in
the informal economy, the increase in their
unpaid care burdens, and the particular
hardships facing female entrepreneurs, such
as—
(1) loss of jobs or pressure to turn to ex-
ploitative work, as women workers dominate
in industries most affected by layoffs caused
by the COVID–19 crisis, including hospi-
tality, childcare, and tourism, and comprise
92 percent of individuals in the informal sec-
tor, which lacks social and legal protections
in most countries;
(2) loss of business, as market closures, dis-
ruptions in global trading, and the collapse
of supply chains have disproportionate ef-
fects on female-led businesses and female
farmers, and enduring gaps in financial in-
clusion will have significant ramifications as
women entrepreneurs continue to be consid-
ered high risk for bank services, formal
loans, and credit;
(3) financial insecurity, as women have
much lower, if any, pensions, retirement sav-
ings, or other assets to mitigate shocks as
compared to men; and
(4) loss of necessary income that female-
headed households depend on, such as remit-
tances, which the World Bank expects will
decrease by nearly 20 percent in 2020;
Whereas the COVID–19 crisis will uniquely
affect women in agriculture, who provide
more than 43 percent of the agricultural
labor around the world and more than 60 per-
cent of such labor in Africa yet whose ability
to harvest, sell, and buy food and other prod-
ucts necessary for their food security and
nutrition will worsen due to travel restric-
tions related to the crisis, ongoing discrimi-
nation in access to agricultural inputs and
markets, and wage gaps and disproportionate
unpaid care burdens for female farmers;
Whereas food insecurity will have unique
effects on the nutrition and health of women
and girls, who already comprise 60 percent of
individuals experiencing hunger in the
world, often rely on getting at least 1 nutri-
tious meal each day from feeding programs
at schools that may be shut down due to the
COVID–19 crisis, and face shortages in nutri-
tious food and nutrients given social norms
that dictate that women and girls eat last
and least when food is scarce;
Whereas girls, particularly adolescent
girls, will be especially affected by the clo-
sures of schools resulting from the COVID–19
crisis, and it estimated that, as of March
2020, nearly 743,000,000 girls, not including
the approximately 132,000,000 girls who were
already out of school before the onset of the
crisis, are out of school due to such closures;
Whereas closures of schools due to the
COVID–19 crisis will decrease the ability of
girls to access education and skills building,
increase the exposure of girls to gender-
based violence, such as child marriage, exac-
erbate the vulnerability of girls to early
pregnancy and childbirth-related complica-
tions, and impede access of girls to informa-
tion about the prevention of COVID–19, pro-
tection services, and pathways to report
abuse;
Whereas the COVID–19 crisis will place par-
ticular burdens on women and girls in hu-
manitarian emergencies given challenges in-
cluding overcrowded conditions, restrictions
on travel and movement, already strained
health, hygiene, and sanitation infrastruc-
ture, food shortages and malnutrition, al-
ready heightened exposure to gender-based
violence, systematic and targeted attacks on
health infrastructure and aid workers by
parties to conflicts, politicization of aid and
service delivery, and restricted humani-
tarian access, all of which exacerbates the
spread and effect of infectious diseases;
Whereas the United Nations Office on
Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the International
Organization for Migration (IOM), and the
Department of State have expressed concern
about an increase in human trafficking and
smuggling as traffickers take advantage of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.205 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6601
October 25, 2020
increased vulnerabilities and chaos during
the COVID–19 crisis;
Whereas the diversion of resources and
services away from existing primary health
care needs to address the COVID–19 crisis
and contain the spread of COVID–19 will have
particular effects on women and girls, in-
cluding disruptions in the provision of life-
saving health services unrelated to COVID–
19, such as maternal health care and sexual
and reproductive health services, and the
loss of critical services and support to re-
spond to gender-based violence;
Whereas the COVID–19 Global Humani-
tarian Response Plan coordinated by the
United Nations is only 17 percent funded,
leaving significant gaps in the response to
immediate health and non-health needs of
women and girls and other vulnerable popu-
lations, and ongoing humanitarian response
plans, identified as a top priority by the
United Nations given that people targeted in
those plans will be the most affected by the
direct and indirect effects of the COVID–19
crisis, remain only 17.3 percent funded;
Whereas estimates show that, globally,
women are included in only 24 percent of na-
tional response plans for the COVID–19 cri-
sis, and women and girls have been largely
excluded from leadership and decision mak-
ing related to responses to the crisis, result-
ing in response measures that may not fully
account for how COVID–19 affects women
and girls; and
Whereas humanitarian exemptions to sanc-
tions and counterterrorism measures are
vital for ensuring states and principled hu-
manitarian actors are able to reach vulner-
able women and girls with efficient, needs-
based assistance, including COVID–19 re-
sponse activities consistent with obligations
under international humanitarian law, re-
gardless of the location of those women and
girls: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) reaffirms the critical importance of
gender balance and inclusivity in bodies re-
sponsible for coordination and decision mak-
ing related to the COVID–19 crisis, including
in structures and task forces of the United
States Government charged with developing
policies and responses to the crisis;
(2) promotes integrating a gender lens
throughout the response to the COVID–19
crisis by analyzing and tracking the effect of
and response to the crisis on gender, includ-
ing gathering evidence from data that is
disaggregated by gender, age, and other spe-
cific variables;
(3) supports measures to ensure that life-
saving health services including sexual and
reproductive health and gender-based vio-
lence prevention and response are well
resourced and supported, including within
the COVID–19 Global Humanitarian Response
Plan coordinated by the United Nations, and
that funding earmarked for those services is
not reduced, canceled, or diverted to other
COVID–19 response activities;
(4) supports measures to ensure the con-
tinuation of adequate food and nutrition se-
curity for women and girls around the world
affected by COVID–19, including women
smallholder farmers and other women work-
ing in agriculture, in light of the unique
challenges described in the preamble of this
resolution;
(5) reinforces the need to ensure that
short-term relief programming and longer-
term economic strategies address the spe-
cific effects of COVID–19 on women globally,
especially lower income, migrant, displaced,
and other marginalized women;
(6) urges the executive branch to uphold
the rights of crisis-affected and forcibly dis-
placed populations, including women and
girls, further affected by COVID–19, by pro-
moting compliance with international hu-
manitarian and human rights legal obliga-
tions and engaging parties to conflicts to en-
sure unhindered access to health care, med-
ical supplies, and other vital aid and protec-
tion;
(7) supports robust funding contributions
by the United States for the international
response to the COVID–19 crisis in addition
to further funding for ongoing humanitarian
appeals in support of vulnerable women and
girls affected by COVID–19 and underlying
emergencies; and
(8) commits to continuously assess and
eliminate any impediment to the delivery of
and access to humanitarian assistance.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 763—SUP-
PORTING THE DESIGNATION OF
OCTOBER 2020 AS ‘‘NATIONAL
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION
MONTH’’
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Mr.
GRASSLEY) submitted the following res-
olution; which was referred to the
Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions:
S. RES. 763
Whereas initiation of substance use during
adolescence is associated with substance use
and misuse in adulthood;
Whereas, in 2019, more than 8,000,000 people
in the United States aged 12 and older used
a controlled substance for the first time;
Whereas, in 2019, an estimated 35,000,000
people in the United States aged 12 and older
used an illicit drug, including cocaine and
methamphetamine;
Whereas more than 20,000,000 people in the
United States aged 12 and older had a sub-
stance use disorder in 2019, including more
than 8,000,000 individuals who had an illicit
drug use disorder;
Whereas, in 2019, an estimated 4,200,000
people in the United States aged 12 and older
received some form of substance use disorder
treatment;
Whereas, in 2019, an estimated 72,000 lives
in the United States were lost to largely pre-
ventable drug overdoses;
Whereas illicit drug use and the misuse of
prescription opioids costs the United States
$271,500,000,000 annually;
Whereas Federal funding to prevent sub-
stance use and misuse was cut by nearly 34
percent between fiscal years 2009 and 2020;
Whereas every dollar invested in substance
use and misuse prevention programs can pro-
vide a savings of up to $20 in substance use
and misuse treatment, health care, and
criminal justice costs;
Whereas Congress has sought to expand ac-
cess to prevention, treatment, and recovery
services through passage of, among other
measures, the Comprehensive Addiction and
Recovery Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-198; 130
Stat. 695);
Whereas substance use and misuse preven-
tion and treatment organizations in the
United States recognize October as ‘‘Na-
tional Substance Abuse Prevention Month’’;
Whereas October 24, 2020, is the second an-
niversary of the enactment of the Substance
Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes
Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients
and Communities Act (Public Law 115-271;
132 Stat. 3894); and
Whereas the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic
has increased social isolation for many peo-
ple in the United States, which can lead to a
greater use and misuse of legal and illegal
substances: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports effective programs to prevent
substance use and misuse, including commu-
nity-based prevention programs such as the
Drug-Free Communities Support Program;
(2) recognizes that certain substances are
being misused at higher rates among adults
during the COVID-19 pandemic, potentially
due to the stress and social isolation associ-
ated with the public health emergency;
(3) supports additional research and ex-
panded access to effective programs to pre-
vent substance use and misuse during the
COVID-19 pandemic;
(4) supports programs to help stem the
drug addiction and overdose epidemic in the
United States; and
(5) supports the designation of October 2020
as ‘‘National Substance Abuse Prevention
Month’’.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 764—DESIG-
NATING OCTOBER 26, 2020, AS
THE ‘‘DAY OF THE DEPLOYED’’
Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. DAINES, Mr. BOOZMAN, and Mr.
TESTER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 764
Whereas more than 2,100,000 individuals
serve as members of the Armed Forces of the
United States;
Whereas several hundred thousand mem-
bers of the Armed Forces rotate each year
through deployments to more than 150 coun-
tries in every region of the world;
Whereas more than 2,000,000 members of
the Armed Forces have deployed to the area
of operations of the United States Central
Command since the September 11, 2001, ter-
rorist attacks;
Whereas the United States is kept strong
and free by the loyal military personnel from
the total force, which is comprised of the
regular components, the National Guard, and
the Reserves, who protect the precious herit-
age of the United States through their dec-
larations and actions;
Whereas the United States remains com-
mitted to providing the fullest possible ac-
counting for personnel missing from past
conflicts ranging from World War II through
current day conflicts;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces
serving at home and abroad have coura-
geously answered the call to duty to defend
the ideals of the United States and to pre-
serve peace and freedom around the world;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces
continue to serve and protect the people of
the United States by making deployments in
the midst of the Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID–19) pandemic;
Whereas the United States remains com-
mitted to easing the transition from deploy-
ment abroad to service at home for members
of the Armed Forces and the families of the
members;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces per-
sonify the virtues of patriotism, service,
duty, courage, and sacrifice;
Whereas the families of members of the
Armed Forces make important and signifi-
cant sacrifices for the United States; and
Whereas the Senate has designated October
26 as the ‘‘Day of the Deployed’’ since 2011:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates October 26, 2020, as the ‘‘Day
of the Deployed’’;
(2) honors the deployed members of the
Armed Forces of the United States and the
families of the members;
(3) calls on the people of the United States
to reflect on the service of those members of
the Armed Forces, wherever the members
serve, past, present, and future; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.218 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6602 October 25, 2020
(4) encourages the people of the United
States to observe the Day of the Deployed
with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 765—CALL-
ING ON CONGRESS, SCHOOLS,
AND STATE AND LOCAL EDU-
CATIONAL AGENCIES TO RECOG-
NIZE THE SIGNIFICANT EDU-
CATIONAL IMPLICATIONS OF
DYSLEXIA THAT MUST BE AD-
DRESSED, AND DESIGNATING OC-
TOBER 2020 AS ‘‘NATIONAL DYS-
LEXIA AWARENESS MONTH’’
Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. KING, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, and Mrs. CAPITO) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judici-
ary:
S. RES. 765
Whereas dyslexia is—
(1) defined as an unexpected difficulty in
reading for an individual who has the intel-
ligence to be a much better reader; and
(2) most commonly caused by a difficulty
in phonological processing (the appreciation
of the individual sounds of spoken language),
which affects the ability of an individual to
speak, read, spell, and, often, the ability to
learn a second language;
Whereas the First Step Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115–391) included a definition of dyslexia
as part of the requirement of the Act to
screen inmates for dyslexia upon intake in
Federal prisons;
Whereas the definition of dyslexia in sec-
tion 3635 of title 18, United States Code, as
added by section 101(a) of the First Step Act
of 2018, is the first and only definition of dys-
lexia in a Federal statute;
Whereas dyslexia is the most common
learning disability and affects 80 to 90 per-
cent of all individuals with a learning dis-
ability;
Whereas dyslexia is persistent and highly
prevalent, affecting as many as 1 out of
every 5 individuals;
Whereas dyslexia is a paradox, in that an
individual with dyslexia may have both—
(1) weaknesses in decoding that result in
difficulties with accurate or fluent word rec-
ognition; and
(2) strengths in higher-level cognitive func-
tions, such as reasoning, critical thinking,
concept formation, and problem solving;
Whereas great progress has been made in
understanding dyslexia on a scientific level,
including the epidemiology and cognitive
and neurobiological bases of dyslexia;
Whereas the achievement gap between typ-
ical readers and dyslexic readers occurs as
early as first grade; and
Whereas early screening for, and early di-
agnosis of, dyslexia are critical for ensuring
that individuals with dyslexia receive fo-
cused, evidence-based intervention that
leads to fluent reading, the promotion of
self-awareness and self-empowerment, and
the provision of necessary accommodations
that ensure success in school and in life:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) calls on Congress, schools, and State
and local educational agencies to recognize
that dyslexia has significant educational im-
plications that must be addressed; and
(2) designates October 2020 as ‘‘National
Dyslexia Awareness Month’’.
SENATE RESOLUTION 766—HON-
ORING THE INDIVIDUALS FIGHT-
ING AND THE INDIVIDUALS WHO
HAVE FALLEN RESPONDING TO
WILDLAND FIRES DURING THE
ONGOING 2020 WILDFIRE SEASON
Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. CRAMER, Ms. MCSALLY, Mr. RISCH,
Mr. CRAPO, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. ENZI, and
Ms. MURKOWSKI) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs:
S. RES. 766
Whereas, since 8:00 p.m. on August 18, 2020,
the National Preparedness Level has been at
5, the highest level, indicative of above-nor-
mal wildfire activity and a maximum com-
mitment of wildfire suppression resources
and personnel;
Whereas, as of September 23, 2020, 43,917
large wildfires had burned 7,027,861 acres
across the Western United States;
Whereas warmer and drier weather and
mismanagement of the forests of the United
States are exacerbating the threat of
wildfires and contributing to the above-nor-
mal fire activity in California, Oregon,
Washington, Idaho, and other western States
in 2020;
Whereas Federal, State, local, and Tribal
agencies have mobilized wildland handcrews,
interagency hotshot crews, engine crews,
smokejumpers, helitack crews, pilots,
rapellers, incident management teams, first
responders, and other wildland firefighters to
help combat wildfires in the West;
Whereas, as of September 23, 2020—
(1) 534 crews and more than 30,000 wildland
firefighters are mobilized to assist with ef-
forts to contain wildfires that threaten com-
munities throughout the West;
(2) the Department of Defense had ap-
proved and mobilized more than 400 United
States Marines, Sailors, and Soldiers to as-
sist with wildfire suppression efforts;
(3) multiple State Governors had mobilized
members and units of the National Guard to
assist with wildfire suppression efforts; and
(4) wildland firefighters from several coun-
tries, including Mexico and Canada, had been
mobilized to respond to wildfires in the
United States;
Whereas the private sector has made sig-
nificant contributions to wildfire response,
providing crews, equipment, technology, ex-
pertise, and aircraft to assist wildfire sup-
pression efforts;
Whereas, as of September 23, 2020, many
wildland firefighters, including 2 Montanans,
had paid the ultimate price while preparing
and training to combat, protecting commu-
nities from, and combating wildfires in 2020;
Whereas the Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID–19) pandemic has exacerbated the
public health and public safety risks inher-
ent in combatting wildfires;
Whereas, as of September 23, 2020, dozens of
people in the United States had lost their
lives, and thousands of homes, approxi-
mately 30 of which were in Montana, had
been destroyed, in wildland fires;
Whereas, were it not for the efforts and
bravery of wildland firefighters, those num-
bers would have been much higher;
Whereas, during 2020, wildland firefighters
in the United States have not only risked
their lives to fight wildfires in the United
States, but have also provided their services
to combat the bushfires in Australia; and
Whereas wildland firefighters, first re-
sponders, sheriffs, and community leaders
have acted bravely and risked their lives to
contain dangerous wildfires across the West-
ern United States to protect families and
critical infrastructure: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes—
(A) the efforts and sacrifices of the
wildland firefighters who have risked their
lives to fight intense wildfires in 2020; and
(B) the support, resources, and personnel
mobilized by the international partners of
the United States;
(2) honors the bravery and heroism of the
men and women assisting in responding to
and combatting wildfires;
(3) expresses appreciation and gratitude to
firefighters for protecting lives and property
in the United States during the ongoing 2020
wildfire season;
(4)(A) honors the ultimate sacrifice of the
wildland firefighters who lost their lives as-
sisting in fighting wildfires in 2020; and
(B) extends deepest condolences to the
families, friends, and colleagues of those
wildland firefighters;
(5) expresses full support for communities
throughout the West as those communities
focus on recovery and rebuilding affected
areas and communities;
(6) values the longstanding partnerships
and collaboration between Federal, State,
local, and Tribal agencies coordinating wild-
fire response efforts; and
(7) supports continued cooperation and col-
laboration between Federal, State, local, and
Tribal entities to mitigate the underlying
factors driving more intense wildfire activ-
ity.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 767—CON-
GRATULATING THE TAMPA BAY
LIGHTNING FOR WINNING THE
2020 STANLEY CUP FINAL
Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself
and Mr. RUBIO) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation:
S. RES. 767
Whereas on September 28, 2020, the Tampa
Bay Lightning (referred to in this preamble
as the ‘‘Lightning’’) won the 2020 National
Hockey League Stanley Cup Final;
Whereas the 2020 Stanley Cup Final is the
second Stanley Cup Final won by the Light-
ning in the 29 years that the franchise has
competed in the National Hockey League;
Whereas the Lightning won the 2020 East-
ern Conference title, and the Prince of Wales
Trophy, won for the third time by the fran-
chise, by defeating the Columbus Blue Jack-
ets, the Boston Bruins, and the New York Is-
landers to advance to the Stanley Cup Final;
Whereas the Lightning defeated the 2020
Western Conference champion, the Dallas
Stars, in the Stanley Cup Final, clinching
the series with 4 wins and only 2 losses;
Whereas the Lightning showed resilience
and sacrifice during the COVID–19 pandemic
by competing in the delayed playoff tour-
nament in secure zones, sequestered from
outsiders for 2 months and away from fam-
ily;
Whereas millions of fans watched the
Lightning during the 2020 Stanley Cup play-
offs as the franchise won the Stanley Cup
Final for the second time;
Whereas Lightning defenseman Victor
Hedman—
(1) led all defensemen in the 2020 Stanley
Cup playoffs with 10 goals and 12 assists; and
(2) won the Conn Smythe Trophy, awarded
to the most valuable player in the playoffs;
Whereas Lightning right winger Nikita
Kucherov—
(1) was the leader in points and assists in
the 2020 Stanley Cup playoffs; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.217 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6603
October 25, 2020
(2) set a new Lightning franchise record for
most points in a single postseason; and
Whereas the following entire Lightning
roster contributed to the Stanley Cup vic-
tory: Nikita Kucherov, Steven Stamkos,
Brayden Point, Victor Hedman, Alexander
Killorn, Anthony Cirelli, Ondrej Palat, Mi-
khail Sergachev, Kevin Shattenkirk, Tyler
Johnson, Yanni Gourde, Patrick Maroon,
Cedric Paquette, Carter Verhaeghe, Erik
Cernak, Ryan McDonagh, Mathieu Joseph,
Jan Rutta, Mitchell Stephens, Braydon
Coburn, Andrei Vasilevskiy, Luke Schenn,
Barclay Goodrow, Zach Bogosian, Blake
Coleman, Alexander Volkov, Curtis
McElhinney, and Scott Wedgewood: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates the Tampa Bay Light-
ning, and the loyal fans of the Tampa Bay
Lightning, for becoming the 2020 National
Hockey League Stanley Cup champions; and
(2) respectfully directs the Secretary of the
Senate to transmit an enrolled copy of this
resolution to—
(A) the chairman and governor of the
Tampa Bay Lightning, Jeff Vinik;
(B) the vice president and general manager
of the Tampa Bay Lightning, Julien
BriseBois; and
(C) the head coach of the Tampa Bay
Lightning, Jon Cooper.
f
APPOINTMENTS AUTHORITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the upcoming adjournment of
the Senate, the President of the Sen-
ate, the President pro tempore, and the
majority and minority leaders be au-
thorized to make appointments to com-
missions, committees, boards, con-
ferences, or interparliamentary con-
ferences authorized by law, by concur-
rent action of the two Houses, or by
order of the Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, OCTOBER
27, 2020, THROUGH MONDAY, NO-
VEMBER 9, 2020
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn to then convene for pro forma
sessions only, with no business being
conducted on the following dates and
times and that following each pro
forma session, the Senate adjourn until
the next pro forma session: Tuesday,
October 27, at 11:30 a.m.; Friday, Octo-
ber 30, at 12 p.m.; Tuesday, November 3,
at 10:15 a.m.; Friday, November 6, at 10
a.m. I further ask that when the Sen-
ate adjourns on Friday, November 6, it
next convene at 3 p.m., Monday, No-
vember 9, and that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate proceed to
executive session to resume the Knepp
nomination; finally, that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the cloture motion
filed during today’s session ripen at
5:30 p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 11:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 8:45 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
October 27, 2020, at 11:30 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
JEFFREY B. ADAY
MARIA E. AGUILAR
YOUSEF M. AHMED
TRENT P. AINSWORTH
RACHAEL A. ALLEN
MARY E. ANDERSON
ANTHONY J. ANGELONE
AARON M. ARZAMENDI
TIMOTHY M. ATTRIDE
AYEETIN M. AZAH
ABIOLA A. BABAWALE
SAMMY M. BAHO
AARON P. BALINSKI
MARTIN J. BAYER
MICHAEL B. BEELER
KENNETH A. BENSON
KATHERINE L. BIGGS
SHANNON L. BINCKLEY
ALISSA D. BISHEL
MATTHEW M. G. BOLES
KIMBERLY A. BOYD
SHANNON E. BROCKMAN
BRENT W. BUCCINE
COLTON T. BUSH
GABRIEL A. CALDERON
DAWN P. CALLAHAN
CHARLES P. CALLIHAN, JR.
AARON S. CANTOR
MARY F. CARRINGTON
TARYN E. CAZZOLLI
HANNAH W. CEEN
REBECCA E. CHOI
COURTNEY A. CLARK
RACHEL M. CONCEPCION
ALANA M. CONNELL
RYAN J. CONNOLLY
NICOLE S. COOK
SARAH S. COOPER
KATHERINE L. CORTEZ
GABRIEL I. CROCKER
ERICA K. CRUMP
ARTHUR D. DANIEL
BETHANY A. DARLING
REHAN S. DAWOOD
HEATHER A. DEHAAN
JOHN J. DELANEY
KARA M. DEMARCO
HENRY R. DEYOUNG
CARRIE M. DILLON
HALEY S. DODSON
MIA I. EDGAR
PETRA S. ELIAS
KRISTEN L. ELMEZZI
PATRICK R. ENGELBERT
DANIEL J. ENRIQUEZ
ALEXANDER L. EYE
IKEMEFUNA I. EZEDI
ALEX W. FARNAND
BRIAN W. FERGUSON
JUSTIN W. FINCHER
DANIEL J. FINNIN
JASON E. FLEENOR
JENNIFER T. FOTI
CATHERINE E. C. GARCIA
JOANNE T. C. GBENJO
JOSEPH A. GEHRZ
CHANDLER W. GETZ
JENNER S. GIBSON
BENJAMIN D. GOLDENBERG
KYLE J. GRAY
JEFFERY T. GRAY
ANDREW V. HAMILTON
ANDREW R. HAMM
BRANDON J. HEEGER
MATTHEW E. HENRIQUES
SAMUEL R. HERMAN
JESSICA M. HEROLD
CHRISTOPHER J. HILL
ANNA L. HOSIG
PEYTON R. JOHNSON
SHAWN E. JOHNSON
JODY W. JOYNT
ALEXANDER J. KASTL
WILLIAM S. KEAN
CAMERON R. KENDALL
JONATHAN Y. KIM
YOUNGMI F. KIM
JOHN J. KOCH
ANASTASIA N. KOSTRUBALA
ANTHONY M. KULETO
ERIK A. KUMETZ
STUART D. KYLLO
ONTARIO D. LACEY
SEAN A. LACEY
MICHAEL LAGUARDA
NICHOLAS H. LAKE
SETH H. LARSEN
JOB P. LARSON
MATTHEW J. LASH
AMANDA M. LAU
CHIHUA LEE
ELLEN J. LESH
ERIC A. LESLIE
TODD C. LILJE
TANYA R. LINDENMUTH
JOHN P. LOVELL
AMY K. LOWRY
WILLIS H. LYFORD
JORDAN W. LYONS
DANIEL B. MACHUE
CHRISTOPHER J. MANGANELLO
ANTHONY J. MARCHAND
CHRISTOPHER D. MARTIN
ALICIA N. MCCLINTOCK
KEVIN S. MCDERMOTT
KYLE T. MCDONALD
LESLIE M. MCDONOUGH
RYAN O. MCMONIGLE
BRADLEY S. MCNEAL
RAYMOND J. MELDER, JR.
LYNN E. MERCER
HABAKUK MICHEL
ANDREW L. MILLER
GRANT A. MILLER
STEVEN C. MILLER
TANNER M. MILLER
SEAN M. MOCK
KYLE W. MOMBELL
KATHLEEN R. MONTANEZ
BRYCE W. MORE
AUSTIN C. MORGAN
BLAKE A. MORGAN
STEPHEN F. MOWERY
DANIEL K. MURPHY, JR.
LAUREN M. MURRAY
LESLIE H. MYERS
RUSSELL E. NEWKIRK
CLARK B. NOBLE
COLIN F. NOLAN
ROBERT D. NOTTINGHAM
ANDREA L. OCHAB
KEELAN K. OCONNELL
SEAN A. OMARA
NEMESIO R. A. ORDONEZ
KATRINA M. OSTERMANN
SHAUN P. OSTROFE
DANIELLE L. PANNEBAKER
TIMOTHY G. PARKER, JR.
WILLIAM J. PARKER
ROSS M. PATRICK
SHIRA R. PAUL
JESSIE O. PAULL
CATHERINE P. PERRAULT
AARON R. PERREAULT
SHIAN L. PETERSON
JACOB E. PETERSON
KHANH H. PHUNG
CATHERINE H. PILSON
BENJAMIN P. PITTMAN
ERIC S. PITTMAN
MELANIE J. PRIBICH
JAMES M. PRIETO
SHIREEN D. RABIEI
KRISTINA K. RACHED
DANIEL J. RAUSA
GLENN A. RAUSCHER
CHRISTOPHER J. RENDINA
ALISA G. RENSCHLER
JOHN T. RICHARDS
TARA R. RING
ANTONIA K. ROBERTS
BRYAN L. ROBERTS
ELIEZER D. RODRIGUEZ
ERIC A. ROSSON
KERRY P. SADLER
COURTNEY M. SAINT
CRAIG S. SCHALLHORN
SAMUEL C. SCHIAVONE
HOLLY S. SCHMIDT
MIGUEL A. SERRANO
CHRISTOPHER G. SHANK
NATHANIEL C. SHERWOOD
SABLE P. SHEW
JOSEPH G. SIMONEAU
GORDON E. SIMS III
MICHAEL M. SKARET
TANNER A. SLAYDEN
DANIEL J. STANDISH
SARAH B. STAROSTA
MICHAEL D. SULLIVAN
ARIANA K. TABING
DENISE N. E. TEH
CHAD A. THOMPSON
NADIA C. THYBERG
TIMOTHY S. TONEY, JR.
MICHAEL W. D. TSAI
MARIELA C. VENTOCILLA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.214 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6604 October 25, 2020
KRISTIN A. WAHLBERGPAINTER
LAUREN A. WALLACE
LYNDSEY E. WESSELS
JANE A. WHITNEY
BENJAMIN F. WILSON
LUKE C. WOMBLE
SARAH E. WOODSONSMITH
BRITTANY M. WOOTTEN
JESSICA L. ZIMMERMAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
JOHN A. O. ABORDO
ELISE K. ANDREWS
RACHEL G. ARNOLD
ANNALEE ASBURY
LEE J. ATKINSON
OMAR I. BAJWA
JAMES R. BENSON
NEIL R. BRESNAHAN
MARY C. CARROLL
KRISTOFERKARLOJOSE CEREDON
SHINGMEI CHANG
DAVID Y. CHO
PATRICK J. CLARK
IAN P. COLLING
MELANIE P. CORNELIUS
JOSH E. CRIBBS
PHILIP R. DAMICO
CHHAMA DAYAMA
KATHERINE A. DECKER
ALEXANDRA L. DOAK
JESSE I. EDWARDS III
JOSHUA D. EVANS
SEAN P. FARRELL
WEBSTER K. FELIX
FRANK W. FU
SAMANTHA D. HAUPAGE
ANDREW D. HENNING
JOHN H. M. HOFER
DANIEL P. HOWARD
CAITLYN B. HOYSOCK
HEE Y. HWANG
SAMANTHA N. JETTE
MATTHEW A. JURCAK
RYAN A. KAYE
RAGHAV KHANDELWAL
ANDREW J. KORCEK
BRUNO W. KULOBA
EUNICE S. LEE
CHRISTOPHER H. LEWIS
WEI LIU
ABIGAIL P. LUPENA
PATRICK E. MCCURDY
AUSTIN B. MCINTYRE
PAULA R. MCKEON
AIDAN A. W. MCKINLAY
JASON B. NISHIKUBO
NICHOLAS C. OSTER
MEREDITH E. OWEN
STEFANO A. PALAZZOLO
SVETLIN I. PENCHEV
JOHN A. PIZAREK
DOUGLAS A. PORR
DOMINICA G. PORTMAN
CHARLES T. QUASNEY
TYLER J. QUINN
JUSTIN S. RAY
CHRISTOPHER E. ROSSON
NATALIE R. SALDIVAR
TRAVIS J. SCHOLER
ALEXANDRA C. SCHOTT
JUSTIN R. SMITH
RALEE E. SPOONER
RAJ K. THAKER
KENNY H. TRAN
BHAVIN M. TRIVEDI
SARAH E. TROISI
THUYVI A. TRUONG
JEREMY P. WADE
YUNING WEBER
WHITNEY B. WEIMERSKIRCH
TRUE XIONG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
JOSHUA M. ADAMS
HANAYO ARIMOTO
THEODORE C. AWA
MELISSA M. BALINT
RAZA P. BEG
ADAM T. BIGGS
GEAN M. BOCA
SARAH C. BROWN
JAIMER G. CADANG
TAWANDA M. CADE
MERILYNN C. CARIAGA
JEFFREY S. CAUDILL
MEGAN S. CHALLACOMBE
RAYMA N. COSLETT
DANIEL J. CROUCH
PHILLIP DANG
BRODIE J. DARLOW
EMILY J. DEBOTROSCLAIR
RICARDO W. DYER
JASON J. EHRHART
EMMANUEL E. EKORTARH
NOAH M. EPSTEIN
SHERLEEN P. ESPINOSA
MARSHALL C. FAULDS
MICHAEL A. FEROLI
ERIC K. FOSS
SEBASTIAN F. GARCIA
MICHAEL D. GIBBONEY
GABRIEL S. GLEASON
VERONICA A. GOMEZ
MALIA L. GONZALEZ
BRENDAN H. GOOD
ASHLEY R. GRIGGS
KYLE A. HASENSTEIN
MEGAN M. HINTON
JEFFREY H. HOLCOMB
CURTIS O. HOLLIE, JR.
BRITTANY A. HOUT
KATELYN S. HOWENSTINE
KEVIN J. KEELEY
JOSEPH M. KIDD
KATHERINE D. KLINE
EVAN L. KNOCK
TIMOTHY J. KRAYNACK
KEVIN D. LANGE
SERENA M. LEUNG
ERIC A. LEWIS
MATTHEW T. LUKE
BENJAMIN K. MATTOX
MICHAEL A. MOSER
CHRISTOPHER Q. MURR
ROBERT L. MURRAY
JENNIFER L. NESTOR
ERIC R. NEUMAIER
JESSICA M. NEWMAN
JAMES M. NICHOLSON
DANIEL J. NORTHINGTON
JEREMIAH T. OH
AMELIA R. OLSON
CHRISTOPHER B. OLSON
DERRICK R. ONEAL
RYAN P. ONEIL
LORELI L. OWENS
JASON R. PALMER
THUY B. PHUNG
DANIEL J. PLITNIK
WESLEY J. POIRIER
NATHANIEL L. P. PRESTON
FAE L. RAMIREZ
KRYSTAL L. RAPP
GREGORY J. REGTS
FABIA A. REID
KEVIN D. REID
TONY L. RICHARDS
LUKE C. RICHMOND
GABRIEL J. ROCHA
CHRISTOPHER D. RODEHEFFER
DANIEL R. ROTH
ROBERT J. SCHERL
MICHAEL B. SHRADER
RACHEL M. SMITH
DANIEL A. SOWERS
RHONDIE N. TAIT
MATTHEW Z. THOMAS
DAWN L. WEIR
AARON S. WEISBROD
CONNOR R. WHITESEL
SKYLAR D. WILLIAMS
CHRISTI M. H. WILSON
KENT J. D. WONG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
CASSANDRA E. ABBOTT
KAITLYN E. AMUNDSEN
RICHARD A. ANDREWS II
MATHEW H. BAGIOLI
CHARITY S. BARR
FRANCESLA S. BRIDGES
WARNER M. BUTKUS
CRYSTAL J. CURTIS
REGINA A. DAVISNILES
ANDREW S. DECKER
BRITTANY E. DOEHREL
TIMOTHY J. DONAHUE
JOSEPH P. DOWDALLS
KEVIN G. EDWARDS
GREGORY J. GIANONI
AUTUMN K. GIBO
JULIE A. GILLASPY
COLIN A. HOOD
JAMES R. HOWLAND
ANDREA LIOU
ALISON R. MALLOY
CLAYTON S. I. MCCARL
KEVIN O. MCCONNELL
GUILLAUME MOK
DANIEL O. MOORE
JAMES G. MOXNESS II
TANYA S. NIKAM
CYNTHIA J. PARMLEY
KEVIN A. PECK
ALARIC A. D. PIETTE
DAVID C. ROWLEY
AMANDA A. RUIZ
ADAM J. SITTE
LESLIE S. STEPHENSON
KATHARINE E. TANNER
JORDI I. TORRES
RYAN T. TURNER
MICHAEL W. WESTER
JESSICA K. M. WOO
JAMES J. YOON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
EZINDU U. ANANTI
KARA L. BALLAS
DERRICK L. BATTLE
JEANFREDERICK BLAIS
JEREMIAH D. BOND
BRIAN B. BONZO
MATTHEW E. BRITT
RACHEL M. BUTRON
BRANDI M. CASON
LATOYA A. COLLIER
BRIAN D. CURTIS
DEVON N. DAN
CYNTHIA C. DEHART
KRISTI L. DIXON
BRENT A. EDWARDS
JASETTE M. FONG
CORY J. FRAPPIER
SCOTT R. FUSELIER
SHARROD R. GREENE
JARED L. HARTMAN
MEAGAN A. HEADRICK
KAYLA D. HENNEN
ERICA M. JOHNSON
KATHERINE W. JONES
MICHAEL G. KAISER, JR.
LACHEAN R. KIMBROUGH
MIEN T. LE
LAWRENCE D. LEDUFF III
RUBEN F. MOJICA
JOSHUA R. MONDLOCH
JAMIE L. MOORE
JENNIFER L. MOTZKUS
GREGORY B. NEVONEN
CHAD M. OBERMEYER
MARY M. PELTON
NICOLE M. PENDRY
BRENT L. PHILLIPS
ANTHONY P. RITCHIE
LAUREN M. SOLO
SAMUEL J. SOURS
MARY C. TAYLOR
SARAH M. TUPARAN
MELVIN W. TURNER
VINCENT I. VASQUEZ
EMANUEL M. WADDELL
LESLEY M. WASHINGTON
CHRISTINA L. WESTBROOK
JENNIFER M. WHITE
ERIC C. WRIGHT
THE JUDICIARY
STEPHEN ANDREW KUBIATOWSKI, OF KENTUCKY, TO
BE A JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL
CLAIMS FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS, VICE MAR-
GARET MARY SWEENEY, TERM EXPIRED.
f
DISCHARGED NOMINATION
The Senate Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs was
discharged from further consideration
of the following nomination under the
authority of the order of the Senate of
01/07/2009 and the nomination was
placed on the Executive Calendar:
*ERIC J. SOSKIN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE INSPECTOR GEN-
ERAL, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.
*Nominee has committed to respond
to requests to appear and testify before
any duly constituted committee of the
Senate.
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate October 26, 2020:
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE GRADE
INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. ROBERT F. HEDELUND
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AMY CONEY BARRETT, OF INDIANA, TO BE AN ASSO-
CIATE JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE
RESERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. JON S. SAFSTROM
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADES INDICATED UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.180 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6605
October 25, 2020
To be brigadier general
COL. ROBERT B. DAVIS
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. ROBERT J. SKINNER
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. MARK C. SCHWARTZ
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADES AS INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. MATTHEW V. BAKER
BRIG. GEN. VINCENT B. BARKER
BRIG. GEN. BOWLMAN T. BOWLES III
BRIG. GEN. MIGUEL A. CASTELLANOS
BRIG. GEN. MILES A. DAVIS
BRIG. GEN. MATTHEW P. EASLEY
BRIG. GEN. JOHN B. HASHEM
BRIG. GEN. JOSEPH J. HECK
BRIG. GEN. SUSAN E. HENDERSON
BRIG. GEN. JAMELLE C. SHAWLEY
BRIG. GEN. TRACY L. SMITH
BRIG. GEN. LAWRENCE F. THOMS
To be brigadier general
COL. HARVEY A. CUTCHIN
COL. JOHN M. DRESKA
COL. CHARLES A. GAMBARO, JR.
COL. MICHAEL M. GREER
COL. ANDREW R. HAREWOOD
COL. DANIEL H. HERSHKOWITZ
COL. STEPHANIE Q. HOWARD
COL. MARIA A. JUAREZ
COL. ROBERT T. KRUMM
COL. JOCELYN A. LEVENTHAL
COL. KEVIN F. MEISLER
COL. ANDREE G. NAVARRO
COL. ROBERT S. POWELL, JR.
COL. JEFFREY D. PUGH
COL. DAVID M. SAMUELSEN
COL. KATHERINE A. SIMONSON
COL. JUSTIN M. SWANSON
COL. DEAN P. THOMPSON
COL. JASON J. WALLACE
COL. MATTHEW S. WARNE
COL. MICHAEL L. YOST
SPACE FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES SPACE FORCE TO THE GRADE IN-
DICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. JOHN E. SHAW
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE PERMANENT GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES SPACE FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
716:
To be major general
MAJ. GEN. JOHN E. SHAW
IN THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JESSICA R.
COLMAN AND ENDING WITH BRIAN A. THALHOFER,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
SEPTEMBER 30, 2020.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH SCOTT R.
MOORE AND ENDING WITH SANDRA V. SLATER, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2020.
IN THE ARMY
ARMY NOMINATION OF ANNE B. WARWICK, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JAKUB H. AN-
DREWS AND ENDING WITH D002999, WHICH NOMINATIONS
WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEPTEMBER 30, 2020.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MATTHEW T.
ADAMCZYK AND ENDING WITH D015515, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEPTEMBER 30, 2020.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JOHN J.
AGNELLO AND ENDING WITH JOHN J. ZOLLINGER, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2020.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH CORNELIUS L.
ALLEN, JR. AND ENDING WITH MICHEAL A. ZWEIFEL,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
SEPTEMBER 30, 2020.
ARMY NOMINATION OF COREY M. JAMES, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JOHN H. MITCHELL, TO BE
COLONEL.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF ROBERT K. DEBUSE, TO BE CAP-
TAIN.
NAVY NOMINATION OF PAUL S. RUBEN, TO BE CAPTAIN.
NAVY NOMINATION OF ROBERT M. KNAPP, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF BRIAN E. LAMARCHE, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF TERENCE M. MURPHY, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF ROLDAN J. CRESPOPABON, TO
BE LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
f
WITHDRAWAL
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on October
26, 2020 withdrawing from further Sen-
ate consideration the following nomi-
nation:
STEPHEN ANDREW KUBIATOWSKI, OF KENTUCKY, TO
BE A JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL
CLAIMS FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS, VICE THOMAS
CRAIG WHEELER, TERM EXPIRING, WHICH WAS SENT TO
THE SENATE ON OCTOBER 23, 2020.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 4637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.185 S25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E987
October 25, 2020
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, Oc-
tober 27, 2020 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
OCTOBER 28
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine Section 230
immunity; focusing on big tech.
SR–253
NOVEMBER 10
2 p.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
financial regulators.
WEBEX
NOVEMBER 17
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion.
WEBEX
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M26OC8.000 E25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
REMARKS
D948
Monday, October 26, 2020
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate confirmed the nomination of Amy Coney Barrett, of Indiana, to
be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6507–S6605
Measures Introduced: Twenty-two bills and eight
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
4859–4880, and S. Res. 760–767. Pages S6596–97
Authorizing Leadership to Make Appoint-
ments—Agreement: A unanimous-consent agree-
ment was reached providing that, notwithstanding
the adjournment of the Senate, the President of the
Senate, the President Pro Tempore, and the Majority
and Minority Leaders be authorized to make ap-
pointments to commissions, committees, boards,
conferences, or interparliamentary conferences au-
thorized by law, by concurrent action of the two
Houses, or by order of the Senate. Page S6603
Pro Forma Sessions—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
Senate adjourn, to then convene for pro forma ses-
sions only, with no business being conducted on the
following dates and times, and that following each
pro forma session, the Senate adjourn until the next
pro forma session: Tuesday, October 27, 2020, at
11:30 a.m.; Friday, October 30, 2020, at 12 p.m.;
Tuesday, November 3, 2020 at 10:15 a.m.; and Fri-
day, November 6, 2020, at 10 a.m.; and that when
the Senate adjourns on Friday, November 6, 2020,
it next convene at 3 p.m., on Monday, November 9,
2020. Page S6603
Knepp II Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of James Ray Knepp
II, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for
the Northern District of Ohio. Page S6588
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Monday, October 26, 2020, a vote on
cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, Novem-
ber 9, 2020. Page S6589
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6588
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6588
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that Senate resume consideration of the nomi-
nation at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday, Novem-
ber 9, 2020. Page S6603
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 52 yeas to 48 nays (Vote No. EX. 224), Amy
Coney Barrett, of Indiana, to be an Associate Justice
of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Pages S6588, S6604–05
During consideration of the nomination today,
Senate took the following action:
By 53 yeas to 46 nays (Vote No. EX. 223), Senate
sustained the ruling of the Chair. Subsequently,
Schumer motion to appeal the ruling of the Chair
that Schumer motion to adjourn is not in order, was
rejected and the decision of the Chair stands as the
judgement of the Senate. Pages S6577–78
2 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
35 Army nominations in the rank of general.
1 Marine Corps nomination in the rank of general.
2 Space Force nominations in the rank of general.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Navy.
Pages S6589, S6604–05
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Stephen Andrew Kubiatowski, of Kentucky, to be
a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims
for a term of fifteen years.
Routine lists in the Navy. Pages S6603–04
Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nomination:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:32 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25OC0.PT2 D25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D949
October 26, 2020
Stephen Andrew Kubiatowski, of Kentucky, to be
a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims
for a term of fifteen years, which was sent to the
Senate on October 23, 2020. Page S6605
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6597–98
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6598–S6663
Additional Statements: Pages S6594–96
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—224) Pages S6578, S6588
Adjournment: Senate convened at 12 noon, on Sun-
day, October 25, 2020, and adjourned at 8:45 p.m.,
on Monday, October 26, 2020, until 11:30 a.m. on
Tuesday, October 27, 2020. (For Senate’s program,
see the remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S6603.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
The House was not in session today. The House
is scheduled to meet at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, October
27, 2020.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 27, 2020
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:32 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25OC0.PT2 D25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D950 October 26, 2020
Next Meeting of the SENATE
11:30 a.m., Tuesday, October 27
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, October 27
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:32 Oct 27, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D25OC0.PT2 D25OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSK126QN23PROD
with
DIGEST
