Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 115th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6635
Vol. 164 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2018 No. 166—Book II
Senate
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TILLIS). The Senator from Washington.
Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I
come and join my colleague from Or-
egon on the floor this evening and
thank him very much for his comments
and hard-fought efforts to try to illu-
minate the issues that are before the
American people in this nomination
that we are going to be voting on.
As nightfall does not come at once, neither
does oppression. In both instances, there is a
twilight . . . and it is in such twilight that
we all must be most aware of change in the
air—however slight—lest we become unwit-
ting victims of the darkness.
Those aren’t my words; those are the
words of the late Supreme Court Jus-
tice William O. Douglas. Yes, that is
right, I quoted William O. Douglas—
not because he was from Yakima, WA,
via Maine, originally, but because I
wanted to bring up the rights of Ameri-
cans that could be undermined by the
confirmation of Judge Kavanaugh to
the Supreme Court. That is because for
generations the U.S. Supreme Court
has been an institution that affirmed
rights of Americans and moved our
country forward, especially when we
needed it most.
In 1954, it made a landmark decision
to end segregation of our schools and
to rightly give access to equal edu-
cation. In 1964, it recognized the right
to privacy and the ability to access
contraception. It is hard to imagine
today, in this era, that we needed that
fundamental right and that it had been
previously blocked. Yet it was. In 2015,
the Supreme Court upheld the funda-
mental rights of marriage for same-sex
couples, holding that they had equal
protection under the law.
Yes, these are rights that have been
decided by our Court and have moved
our country forward. So I became very
concerned when President Trump nom-
inated Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the
Supreme Court because he was on a list
of an organization that wanted to see
the literal text of the statute over up-
holding the hard-won rights of all
Americans.
When it comes to the rights of con-
sumers—healthcare rights, environ-
mental laws, privacy rights, labor
rights—I want to know where a Su-
preme Court Justice is going to be in
upholding those hard-won rights that
Americans and our society have pushed
forward for decades. In this case, he
will be replacing a Justice who has
been a key vote on many fundamental
rights in America.
So I definitely express my opinion
that I do not believe that Judge
Kavanaugh will protect those hard-won
rights. And my concern is that he does
not have a judicial philosophy that is
in the mainstream views of America.
He has the most dissents of any judge
on the DC Circuit. That is to say that
he is dissenting from even the most
conservative judges on that Court. He
is still dissenting. So I don’t find those
views in the mainstream views of
Americans.
Let’s just take one example:
healthcare. More than 3 million Wash-
ingtonians in my State have pre-
existing conditions, such as diabetes,
heart disease, and asthma, and Ameri-
cans don’t want to be discriminated
against because of their medical his-
tory.
More than 75 percent of Americans
support the preexisting condition pro-
tections that have been put into law
under the Affordable Care Act. These
protections help keep them from hav-
ing medical debt and uncompensated
care. All of these issues are very impor-
tant for us to continue to protect.
In 2011, Judge Kavanaugh refused to
uphold the constitutionality of the Af-
fordable Care Act, and he has criticized
the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold
parts of that law. In his confirmation
hearings, he refused to say whether
these current protections for Ameri-
cans are constitutional. His record sug-
gests that he will not defend these pro-
tections or Congress’s clear intent in
writing them.
It is not just some theoretical issue.
Today, these protections are being
threatened in the courts. They are
being threatened by a group of Repub-
lican attorneys general who are trying
to get a Federal court in Texas to
strike down these protections in the
healthcare law, and the Justice Depart-
ment has decided to join those States
in asking the courts to strike down
these preexisting condition protec-
tions. So this case is definitely work-
ing its way through the court system
and could likely end up before the Su-
preme Court.
Some have suggested: Well, don’t
worry about that. Don’t worry about
that because Justice Roberts will up-
hold the healthcare law. He will be the
swing vote, and Judge Kavanaugh’s ap-
pointment to the Supreme Court is ir-
relevant on this point.
That is wrong. First, you really can’t
count on Chief Justice Roberts in up-
holding the Affordable Care Act. In
fact, that is what the attorneys general
are arguing, that his previous decision
will help to strike down the law. The
times and circumstances are different
now because the Federal Government
isn’t fighting to protect the Affordable
Care Act, which it did in previous ad-
ministrations, and there is no guar-
antee that Justice Roberts will rule in
favor of the law. There are other as-
pects of the Affordable Care Act that
he has also sided against.
It is hard to believe now that this
fundamental right that has been so
hard fought for so many people may be
in danger. I can say that in my State,
I have been in hospital after hospital
and healthcare facility after
healthcare facility. Doctors say to me
that they can’t even imagine what it is
going to be like to go back to prior to
the preexisting condition protections.
It has become such a norm that they
are covering people that they couldn’t
imagine that kind of discrimination
today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05OC6.110 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6636 October 5, 2018
When it comes to reproductive
rights, those are under threat as well.
In 2017, Judge Kavanaugh suggested
that he supported Justice Rehnquist’s
dissent in Roe v. Wade, which called
the landmark decision a product of
‘‘freewheeling judicial creation of
unenumerated rights that were not
rooted in the nation’s history.’’
As somebody who sat on the Judici-
ary Committee for the first 2 years I
was in the Senate, I can guarantee that
I asked every judicial nominee whether
they believed in the penumbra of rights
guaranteed in the Constitution for the
right to privacy or they didn’t. The
reason I did that is because those who
really don’t believe that Roe was right-
ly decided believe that those rights are
not enumerated and could overturn
them in the future.
While Judge Kavanaugh may now be-
lieve that Roe v. Wade is settled law,
records from his days in the adminis-
tration raise doubts. Perhaps more im-
portantly, during his confirmation
hearing, he refused to say whether it
was wrongly decided. Why is that im-
portant? Because in the near future, if
a majority on the Supreme Court de-
cides that it was previously wrongly
decided, they can just overturn it.
If Judge Kavanaugh does not believe
the Constitution gives women the right
to make decisions about their own bod-
ies, then whatever assurance he gives
us now about precedent is hollow. This
is why it is so important to people in
my State. We voted in 1991 by an ini-
tiative of the people to have this right
in our State law. We in the State of
Washington and millions of women
want to see every woman in America
have these same rights.
I took President Trump at his word
when he said he was going to put a
nominee on the Court who automati-
cally would overturn this. These Jus-
tices—Roberts and conservatives like
Alito, Thomas, and Gorsuch—would
now be joined by Kavanaugh and over-
turn this right in a 5-to-4 decision.
Even if they don’t fully overturn it,
they could effectively undermine its
protections piece by piece. Chief Jus-
tice Roberts, for instance, has repeat-
edly upheld restrictive limits on repro-
ductive rights. These Justices have
proven themselves very willing to re-
strict access to safe and legal abor-
tions.
As I said, the people of my State de-
cided that they wanted to protect this,
and I am here to help and defend that
for other women in the United States
of America.
If Judge Kavanaugh were to serve a
lifetime appointment on the Court, he
could also pose threats to the rights of
LGBTQ Americans not just in my
State but across the country. The Su-
preme Court will likely hear cases that
impact this community.
There are cases pending like the Ar-
lene Flowers case in the State of Wash-
ington where a florist refused to pro-
vide services at a gay couple’s wedding.
The Court could also likely hear argu-
ments on President Trump’s discrimi-
natory ban on transgender service-
members. The rights of LGBTQ Ameri-
cans are at stake with Judge
Kavanaugh on the Bench because his
broad view of religious freedom could
provide a license to discriminate
against these individuals.
Judge Kavanaugh’s record also sug-
gests that he will be hostile to the pro-
tection of other privacy rights. In 2015,
after it was revealed that the National
Security Administration, NSA, had
been collecting Americans’ phone
records in bulk without warrant, Judge
Kavanaugh decided that national secu-
rity needs outweighed individuals’
right to privacy. He supported expand-
ing warrantless surveillance by the
government.
What is more, Judge Kavanaugh has
ruled in favor of a restrictive voter
identification law, raising concerns
that he would support scaling back
hard-won voting rights. Those rights
are sacred in our country, and the last
thing we need is a Supreme Court that
would refuse to defend them.
I am also concerned about his views
on issues that could affect Native
Americans. Native Americans need to
have their sovereignty recognized and
their rights protected. In this term
alone, there could be three cases before
the Court, and some of the most basic
Tribal rights in our country are at
risk. Judge Kavanaugh’s position,
found in his own writings before he be-
came a Federal court judge, indicated
that he did not take seriously the con-
stitutional rights of Tribal govern-
ments and the sovereign obligation of
the United States when it entered into
treaties and agreements with Tribal
and Indian people and Alaska Natives.
Time and again, these issues are be-
fore us and before a court, and that is
why, as I said, I believe in a court that
protects these hard-won rights. I know
that textualists will tell you some-
thing different, but where would we be
on just the basic rights of contracep-
tion if we didn’t have a court that did
not find unenumerated rights in our
Constitution? Where would we be on
the future rights of privacy that need
to be protected in the United States of
America?
Time and again, Judge Kavanaugh
has favored big companies over every-
day Americans, using a twisted logic to
defend big corporate polluters.
Kavanaugh seems to have a particular
animus against the Environmental
Protection Agency and its efforts to
follow Congress in a direction that has
been given in law to reduce air and
water pollution. That is a direct af-
front to the leadership of people like
Ed Muskie, who led Congress in its ef-
fort to pass the Clean Air Act in 1970
and control pollution and in 1990 when
Congress amended the law to combat
acid rain, ozone depletion, and auto
emissions. And since then, the U.S. Su-
preme Court has upheld the Clean Air
Act.
In 2007, in the Massachusetts case,
the Supreme Court ruled that the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency has
the authority to regulate greenhouse
gases under the Clean Air Act, and Jus-
tice Kennedy, whom Judge Kavanaugh
will replace, provided the fifth and de-
ciding vote in that decision. But as
Kennedy’s replacement on the Court,
the government’s ability to mitigate
climate change could be lost. That
would mean everything from not ad-
dressing these impacts we are seeing on
our coastal communities to what we
are seeing in damage from wildfires,
and it could mean that the report that
was done by the Government Account-
ability Office saying that climate
change impacts are costing us over $620
billion every 10 years will continue to
be ignored.
We want a Supreme Court Justice
who is going to follow the law and
abide by and uphold what Congress has
said, and that is what the Court has
said as well. Judge Kavanaugh said he
didn’t think the EPA had the authority
to regulate air pollution across States.
The U.S. Supreme Court reversed his
opinion. In a 6-to-2 decision, they con-
cluded that Judge Kavanaugh had im-
properly applied his own policy judg-
ment rather than the plain text of the
statute written by Congress. That is
what the Supreme Court said in revers-
ing him.
I will say it again. The U.S. Supreme
Court said Judge Kavanaugh used his
own policy judgments rather than the
law as it was written by Congress.
So, yes, I have concerns that his
views are not in the mainstream of
America and of judicial philosophy
when it comes to protecting our envi-
ronment.
In another case, he opposed the
EPA’s interpretation that it could con-
trol ‘‘any air pollutant’’ because he
thought that the terms of the Clean
Air Act didn’t include that. He also
sought to limit its authority to protect
Americans from greenhouse gases. In a
2013 case—the Center for Biological Di-
versity—Kavanaugh said that the
Clean Air Act does not even cover car-
bon dioxide at all.
In fact, he ruled to weaken environ-
mental protections in 89 percent of the
cases that have come before him. So I
do not call that in the mainstream
views of judicial philosophy.
Tomorrow, we will have major issues
before us as this vote takes place.
When it comes to whether you are sid-
ing on behalf of the American worker
or large corporations, I, too, have con-
cerns.
In a 2015 case, he overruled the Na-
tional Labor Relations Board, siding
with a hotel that had requested police
officers to issue criminal citations to
union demonstrators who were legally
protesting.
In another case, Kavanaugh sided
with a company that had banned em-
ployees who interacted with customers
or who worked in public from wearing
union shirts that said certain words on
them. The NLRB found that the em-
ployer committed an unfair labor prac-
tice, but Judge Kavanaugh disagreed,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05OC6.111 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6637
October 5, 2018
concluding that the union members did
not have a right to wear the shirts be-
cause the company believed it would be
damaged.
In 2013, a SeaWorld trainer was dis-
membered and killed by a whale during
a live show. Kavanaugh ruled against
the Occupational Health and Safety
Commission’s conclusions that
SeaWorld had acted wrongly and had
insufficiently limited trainers’ phys-
ical contact with orcas.
I am concerned about the informa-
tion age that we live in and that when
it comes to issues relating to pro-
tecting consumer rights, there is no
bigger consumer right than protecting
the right of those on the internet to ac-
cess information. We cannot have a
two-tiered internet system in which
these rights are not protected by a
court.
In this case, Judge Kavanaugh wrote
that the FCC did not have the right to
regulate broadband providers as ‘‘com-
mon carriers.’’ Instead, he made it
clear that he believes that broadband
cable companies should be able to con-
trol your internet experience as they
see fit.
Part of his flawed analysis rested on
the idea that what the FCC was pur-
porting to do by protecting consumers
was a type of rule that was so con-
sequential that it could only stand if
Congress bestowed ‘‘clear and unambig-
uous authority’’ on the agency. This is
in contradiction to the Supreme
Court’s own precedent, which deter-
mined that the FCC did have the au-
thority to decide whether and how to
regulate broadband.
The other part of his faulty analysis
rested on the view that cable and
broadband companies that operate the
pipes that serve as a ramp to the inter-
net have First Amendment rights, and
they should be able to exercise that
right to deny or limit consumers’ ac-
cess to content.
I guarantee you that saying that the
First Amendment gives cable compa-
nies the right to charge whatever they
want to charge you for the future is
not in the mainstream view of judicial
philosophy or what the American peo-
ple have come to expect.
So let me say again that these impor-
tant issues are not part of Judge
Kavanaugh’s willingness to protect
these rights to healthcare, of the envi-
ronment, of privacy, of consumer
rights, and the things that we hold so
dear, that we have all fought for, legis-
lated for, and had courts uphold and
preserve.
I am not buying the notion that a
strict textualist is the way to go. I be-
lieve my colleagues on the other side of
the aisle have every right to disagree
with that, but I would ask them, how
are you ever going to move America
forward in decisions like our desegre-
gation of education or on contracep-
tion or on these other privacy rights if
you don’t interpret the Constitution to
today’s needs?
I would say now that the biggest
threat we face is the overreaching of an
administration that every single day
does something to not comply with the
law as it is written. The President just
issued an Executive order weeks ago
that exempted administrative law
judges from the competitive service;
instead allowing the agencies to hire
them.
The President’s Executive order does
not reflect the mainstream views of
Americans. Administrative law judges
should be well qualified and impartial,
and the process to select them non-
partisan and fair.
Is this judge going to challenge the
President or is he just going to say
that he agrees with the President of
the United States? As one White House
Counsel from the Nixon administration
said, if Judge Kavanaugh is confirmed,
it ‘‘will be the most Presidential pow-
ers-friendly Supreme Court in the mod-
ern era.’’
Well, I can tell you this: If those on
the other side of the aisle are pro-
moting this nomination because they
want a rubberstamp on the Trump ad-
ministration, we will fight them every
step of the way. The Supreme Court is
supposed to be the impartial arbi-
trator, the one that, even though we
have different Congresses and different
views, interprets the law over a period
of time, that does not make political
decisions but makes impartial deci-
sions. To have somebody on the Court
now when every day an administration
is not following the law and basically
subverting it—it is a time where we
need a Supreme Court to stand up and
do their job and hold the administra-
tion accountable.
I am sure it is not pleasant to hold an
administration accountable, but this is
an important time for checks and bal-
ances in the United States of America.
I don’t believe that the rights of indi-
viduals will be protected from the over-
reach of this administration or be de-
fended by this nominee.
I know a lot has been said today
about what the process for this nomi-
nee has been for the Court. I know
there is a lot that will continue to be
discussed after this day about how this
institution has handled this situation
and the accusations against Judge
Kavanaugh. All I can say is that we
need to do better. We need, as an insti-
tution, to have a better process for
evaluating these situations and how to
make them less partisan.
But I will tell you this: I found the
testimony by Dr. Ford credible, and
those saying ‘‘Well, it must have hap-
pened; it just wasn’t him’’ is another
example of denial of information in-
stead of getting to the truth of the sit-
uation. We have to do better because
we are an institution that is supposed
to lead on this issue. We are not sup-
posed to be an institution like the
other institutions we have seen sweep
these allegations under the rug, only to
come back at some point in time when
there are 300 cases or 400 cases or X
number of people who have been im-
pacted.
This institution has to figure out a
better way to lead on this issue, and I
plan to continue to work with my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
help us continue to focus on this. So
many people in America are counting
on us, so many women in America are
counting on us, and so many Tribal
women are counting on us. The statis-
tics are just too high to leave a nomi-
nee on the Court with a doubt about
this investigation, with this situation
not rendered to a point where more
people felt that the information was
fully investigated. We have to do bet-
ter. We are going to be challenged as
we move forward.
As I said, I don’t believe that Judge
Kavanaugh’s nomination is in the
mainstream of judicial philosophy in
the United States of America. That is
why I am not supporting him. I didn’t
support him when he was first nomi-
nated for the DC Circuit Court because
I had doubts that he would be that in-
dividual who would put political, par-
tisanship aside and be that impartial
Justice. I didn’t make a decision right
away; I went back and researched his
record. I looked at the decisions on
basic rights that so many Americans
are counting on, and I can tell you
this: For these rights, you cannot
count on Judge Kavanaugh. Therefore,
he does not get my consent to move
forward to the Supreme Court.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, these
are the big leagues for a Senator. De-
pending on how long you serve here,
you get only a handful of opportunities
to vote on the confirmation of a Su-
preme Court Justice.
We may know how this is going to go
tomorrow, but many of us who have
very serious concerns about the prece-
dent that this confirmation creates for
this country that we love are going to
be here on the floor tonight—through
the night—trying to implore our col-
leagues to think differently about this
or at least think about how we can do
this differently the next time around
and how we can come to some common
understanding as to what the rules of
the game should be and what the
standards should be when we are inter-
viewing candidates for one of the most
important jobs in the world, the U.S.
Supreme Court.
I have a few things to say here to-
night, as the hour gets late. I wanted
to start by talking a little bit about
what the standard is. What is the
standard that we should apply when we
are considering a submission from the
executive branch to sit on the Supreme
Court?
It seems to me as if this whole exer-
cise has been conducted in a manner to
suggest that, A, there is no one else eli-
gible for the Supreme Court, other
than Brett Kavanaugh, as if we live in
an Adam and Eve world in which we
have few, if any, alternative choices
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05OC6.112 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6638 October 5, 2018
and, B, that this body owes some sig-
nificant and potentially binding obliga-
tion to the President when he makes
his choice.
I just want to go back over the stand-
ard for a moment because it is not un-
common for the Senate to reject Su-
preme Court nominees who have been
sent to this body. In fact, if you walk
out the door on the other side of this
Chamber and you hang a left, you will
quickly come to the Senate Reception
Room. In that room, there is a rel-
atively freshly painted picture of Oli-
ver Ellsworth and Roger Sherman. This
is one of the newer portraits here in
the Capitol, and it depicts two Con-
necticut delegates to the Constitu-
tional Convention scheming over what
would become called the Connecticut
Compromise.
This is the breakthrough at the Con-
stitutional Convention that establishes
the Senate with two Members per
State and the House of Representatives
elected by proportion of population per
State.
Oliver Ellsworth is a significant fig-
ure in the history of my State and in
the history of this country but not
only because of his contribution to the
adoption of the U.S. Constitution; he
also plays a significant role in the be-
ginning of the American judicial sys-
tem. He is the father of the American
judiciary in that he authored, as a Sen-
ator, the first Judiciary Act, which es-
tablished the Federal court system.
Then he plays another important role
in the early history of the courts be-
cause when it was time for George
Washington to nominate a second Su-
preme Court Chief Justice, the name he
sent to the Senate was rejected. He
sent his friend John Rutledge, but be-
cause his friend John Rutledge had
played a fairly controversial role in the
adoption of the Jay Treaty, the Senate
voted Rutledge down.
Washington, not wanting to be em-
barrassed again, knowing that he need-
ed the consent of the Senate to get
someone into that role, picked one of
the Senate’s own. He picked Oliver
Ellsworth, who was the foremost ex-
pert on the judiciary in the Senate.
Oliver Ellsworth became the Chief Jus-
tice of the Supreme Court. His bust sits
inside the Old Supreme Court Chamber
here in the Senate today.
I tell that story only because it is a
reminder that at the very earliest
stages of the American Republic, the
Senate decided to exercise its inde-
pendent discretion when it came to
choices for the Supreme Court by the
President of the United States.
George Washington figured out very
quickly that the Senate does not owe
the executive automatic deference
when it comes to the choices that are
placed before the Senate. It is advice
and consent. In fact, that practice of
refusing to give complete and total def-
erence to the executive has continued
up until this day. From World War II
until this moment, I think the number
is seven selections by the President
that ultimately did not get confirmed.
Sometimes the Senate gives a hint
ahead of time that a nomination isn’t
going to go so well, and the President
withdraws that nominee. Not in every
case is there actually a vote before the
Senate. Oftentimes, the signal is clear
enough from the Senate that consent is
not going to be given, and the adminis-
tration withdraws that nominee.
Let’s be clear that there is no bind-
ing obligation on behalf of the Senate
to say yes to a nominee whom we be-
lieve to be flawed or wrong for the mo-
ment—no obligation on behalf of Mem-
bers of the President’s party and no ob-
ligation on behalf of Members of the
opposition party.
Second, I have heard my Republican
colleagues, ad nauseam, treat this se-
lection as if we are a court of law with
a defendant sitting in front of us whose
freedom is going to be taken away if he
doesn’t get a positive vote for con-
firmation. Why do I say that? Because
over and over again, I have heard this
idea that Brett Kavanaugh is innocent
until proven guilty, that there is a pre-
sumption of innocence with respect to
the claims that surround him. Those
are not traditionally terms that have
been used with respect to the choices
we make about nominees to the judi-
cial branch or to the executive branch.
Those are terms that are used in courts
of law.
The presumption of innocence is
given to a defendant. The high burden
of proving guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt is placed on the prosecutor be-
cause the stakes in a criminal trial are
fundamentally different from the
stakes in an appointment to the Su-
preme Court or to become the head of
a department.
In a court of law, in a criminal court
of law, the bar, the standard is set high
because the consequence to that de-
fendant is his liberty being taken away
from him or her. That is not the case
for Brett Kavanaugh or any other
name that gets sent to this body for
confirmation. If Brett Kavanaugh were
not to receive a confirmation vote to
the Supreme Court, he would go right
back to the appellate court with a nice
job and a nice salary, as would many
other nominees who don’t get a con-
firmation vote from this body. Their
liberty isn’t taken away. They go back
to some pretty good jobs.
That is why it is nonsensical to sug-
gest that the standard we apply here to
a nominee is similar to that of a crimi-
nal court. We don’t have to prove that
reservations about a nominee can ulti-
mately be held to the same standard as
in a criminal court. Why? Because the
consequences are lower but also be-
cause there are other people who can
serve that role. You err on the side of
caution often when it comes to nomi-
nations because the consequences for
the country of simply moving on to the
next nominee for a Cabinet post or a
judicial job are, frankly, fairly low.
The standard is not a criminal stand-
ard.
We have often talked about the fact
that this is much more like a job inter-
view. I think that is right. I don’t
think it is a perfect analogy. This is a
pretty special and important job. There
are some procedures around this job
interview that we don’t hold ourselves
to when we are interviewing somebody
for a position in our office. Let’s all be
honest with each other. If somebody
showed up in our office looking for a
position and their file looked like the
file of Brett Kavanaugh, none of us
would hire that individual—not a sin-
gle one of us.
Tell me that a Senator would hire an
individual who came to their office,
who might have looked qualified, who
might have a sterling resume, but
whose file included several credible al-
legations of serious misbehavior. You
probably wouldn’t even go through the
trouble of conducting an exhaustive in-
quiry into whether those allegations
were true or not, as I think we had an
obligation to do with respect to this
case. I would argue, we had an obliga-
tion to do that investigation here be-
cause this is different from a job inter-
view for a legislative assistant or a per-
son who answers our phones.
Let’s be honest that if those allega-
tions were before us as employers, we
wouldn’t hire that individual. And we
certainly wouldn’t hire an individual
who conducted themselves in the job
interview in the same way that Brett
Kavanaugh conducted himself when he
came before the Judiciary Committee
last week. It is much more like a job
interview than it is a criminal trial. It
doesn’t neatly fit into either category,
but we wouldn’t hire that individual in
our office because we know that there
are plenty of other qualified applicants
for the jobs we are looking for. Why
take a chance on someone who might
be fundamentally wrong for the posi-
tion we are interviewing for?
I think it is important at the outset
to get the standard right. The termi-
nology that gets thrown around here as
if this is a criminal trial just misunder-
stands the nature of the job that we
have before us.
I want to turn to the arguments that
I would use if I thought I had the
chance to change the mind of some of
my Republican colleagues this evening.
That is probably impossible at this late
stage, but we are here, so I might as
well give it a try.
I agree with everything Senator
CANTWELL said about the jurisprudence
of Judge Kavanaugh on the appellate
court. I think he is a dangerous nomi-
nee because he does fall fairly far out
of the judicial mainstream.
I heard Senator COLLINS on the floor
earlier today talking about how she
hoped that he would be a bridge be-
tween the two sides of the Court, how
she thought that he might ultimately
be someone who would lead to fewer 5-
to-4 decisions being rendered on the
Court.
She used as evidence of that hope a
statistic that is curious. She talked
about the fact that he voted with
Merrick Garland 93 percent of the time
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05OC6.114 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6639
October 5, 2018
on the court. Brett Kavanaugh voted
with Merrick Garland 93 percent of the
time on the court because the appellate
court in DC—as is the case with most
appellate courts in the country—ren-
ders most of their decisions in unani-
mous form. All of the judges are agree-
ing with each other on the vast major-
ity of cases. That statistic does not tell
you whether Brett Kavanaugh is a
bridge builder or whether he is an
outlier.
Fortunately, there is another, more
relevant statistic; that is, the percent-
age of times a judge dissents, who
stands away from his colleagues, who
has formed a consensus and rendered
an opinion of his or her own.
No one on the DC Circuit dissented
during Judge Kavanaugh’s time on
that court more often than Judge
Kavanaugh. Some of those dissents
were pretty creative dissents. Some of
the things we are most worried about
with respect to the friendliness of
Judge Kavanaugh to corporate power,
his distaste for regulation, comes from
those dissents in which Democrats and
Republicans—or, put better, judges ap-
pointed by Democrats and Repub-
licans—on the DC Circuit found a way
to agree, but Judge Kavanaugh stood
over here with some novel theories of
the case as to why regulatory bodies
couldn’t get into the business of big
corporations.
The history in appellate court is not
of being a bridge builder; it is of stand-
ing outside of that mainstream, chal-
lenging the consensus. That is who
Judge Kavanaugh is going to be on the
Supreme Court.
I will give you an example, some-
thing that is close to my heart. I had a
lot of arguments in Connecticut about
the future of gun policy in this coun-
try, just like we have a lot of argu-
ments here. By and large, people in my
State—even the folks who don’t agree
with all the things I would do if I were
in charge of America’s gun laws—gen-
erally think it should be up to us to de-
cide. They might not think the Second
Amendment allows us to pass a bill
banning all guns in the country, but
they think the question of who can own
guns and what kind of guns can be sold
is a question better left to legislature.
Brett Kavanaugh has a novel theory
about the limits of the legislature’s
ability to regulate gun ownership. It is
a theory that even for him is pretty far
outside of the mainstream. He actually
laid it out for the Judiciary Committee
in a series of questions and answers
with the ranking member. He said: Lis-
ten, I think if a gun is in the commer-
cial space, the Constitution grants it
permanent protection. His argument is
that once a gun is sold privately, you
can never ever ban it. That is ridicu-
lous. That is not how any courts have
read the law prior to this time.
This Congress has regularly made the
decision that some weapons are not
proper for commercial sale and have
pulled them out of the commercial
market. In the 1930s, Congress decided
that automatic weapons that were out
in the streets—the so-called Tommy
guns—should come out of the commer-
cial market. In the 1990s, we made the
decision that assault weapons—the
semiautomatic tactical weapons—
should be restricted. Kavanaugh says:
No, once a gun is sold privately, you
can’t ever take it back, no matter how
dangerous. No matter how dangerous it
becomes, no matter the mistake that
Congress thinks it might have made in
legalizing that weapon, once it is out
there, you cannot take it back—so says
the Second Amendment. It is a radical
idea, as is his theory of the case on
abortion rights.
We can talk about the case that came
before his court in which he denied the
ability of a young immigrant woman to
seek an abortion despite the fact that
she fit all the other legal requirements
for that procedure, or we could just
look to the fact that in his testimony,
he parroted the political jargon of the
anti-choice movement. He used phrases
that courts don’t use when talking
about the issue of abortion or repro-
ductive healthcare. He used the phrase
‘‘abortion on demand,’’ which is a ri-
diculously politically loaded term. I
have no idea what that means, but it is
a term that is regularly used by the
anti-choice political movement. You
can’t get an abortion from a vending
machine, but that is what the phrase
‘‘abortion on demand’’ seems to sug-
gest exists in the world, and Judge
Kavanaugh used it.
He also called birth control an abor-
tion-inducing drug, which it is not.
Simple science can serve to explain
that birth control certainly can pre-
vent a pregnancy, but it does not cause
an abortion. But Judge Kavanaugh
used that term in his confirmation
hearing because it is part of the polit-
ical opposition. It is part of the basket
of propaganda that gets used to try to
pull down protection for reproductive
choice around the country.
I share many of the reservations that
my colleagues have expressed when it
comes to Judge Kavanaugh’s record on
the Second Amendment, Judge
Kavanaugh’s testimony before the Ju-
diciary Committee in his first hearing
on the issue of reproductive choice, as
well as the reservations many of my
colleagues have about what he will do
to the Affordable Care Act.
I will concede that his writings on
the Affordable Care Act are limited. He
has expressed some hostility to the Af-
fordable Care Act. He said in one of his
decisions that if the Congress could go
so far as to require people to buy
healthcare, there was no limit to the
potential reach of Congress’s power.
On this one, I take the President at
his word. The President said he would
never make the mistake George Bush
did in appointing someone to the Su-
preme Court who would uphold the Af-
fordable Care Act, as John Roberts did.
He promised he wouldn’t make that
mistake again. On this one, given the
over-the-top, incessant, persistent hos-
tility the President has expressed for
the Affordable Care Act, I trust he has
made good on his promise and that he
has sent someone to us who is going to
work with him to try to unwind the Af-
fordable Care Act.
I was an early opponent of Judge
Kavanaugh’s. I didn’t wait very long to
express my opposition because I see he
is so far out of line with Connecticut
values that he is not going to be a
judge in the model of those true cen-
trist judges who maybe I didn’t agree
with on issue after issue but I thought
gave each question before them a fair
look.
I also don’t think that is my best
case with my Republican friends be-
cause you feel differently about the Af-
fordable Care Act and about the Second
Amendment and about the issue of
choice than I do. It is probably not the
best tactic at 1 o’clock in the morning
to try to convince you to vote against
Brett Kavanaugh based upon his con-
servative, I would argue rightwing
record as an appellate judge. So let me
try some different arguments out on
you. Some of these will have to do with
process. Process is important. Process
is important because it is kind of all
we have. When it comes down to it, de-
mocracy holds together because of a
set of rules we all agree to follow. It is
called the rule of law, broadly.
In this place, it is a set of precedents
and traditions that have held up pretty
well over 240 years. As those precedents
and traditions start to fall, so do the
edges of democracy itself. I know to
some it feels like insider politics—belt-
way jargon—to be talking about the
process we have gone through here, but
there are some important precedent-
shattering decisions that have been
made by the majority with respect to
the Kavanaugh nomination.
The first is the documents sur-
rounding Brett Kavanaugh’s candidacy.
As many of my colleagues have said,
we have seen somewhere around 6 per-
cent to 7 percent of all the documents
relative to Brett Kavanaugh’s time as
a judge and as a staff person in the ex-
ecutive branch. We have seen a small
slice of those documents. I think the 7-
percent number applies to the docu-
ments relative to his time in the White
House.
I listened to Senator LEE earlier to-
night talk about the fact that it wasn’t
his fault that we didn’t see the docu-
ments because those are in the posses-
sion of the administration, and the
Bush administration and representa-
tives of the Bush White House are mak-
ing the decisions about what docu-
ments Congress can see and can’t see
independently of Brett Kavanaugh.
That is not true. The individual who
is overseeing the decision about which
documents Congress can see and can’t
see is a close confidant, ally, and col-
league of Brett Kavanaugh’s. In fact, 2
weeks ago when the nomination of
Brett Kavanaugh was thrown into
doubt and the White House convened a
war room—a war room of Judge
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05OC6.116 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6640 October 5, 2018
Kavanaugh’s most loyal, trusted advis-
ers—the individual who was vetting the
documents for the Bush White House
was in the war room. This was not an
independent exercise of discretion on
behalf of the Bush White House; this
was one of Judge Kavanaugh’s primary
backers making decisions on which
documents we could see and which ones
we couldn’t. This was a political job.
We are left to wonder why we get so
few. What is in those other documents
that were so explosive that you had to
put a political ally of Brett
Kavanaugh’s in charge of the disclo-
sure of those documents and give us so
few?
Here is why the process matters.
Once you have made the decision that
you are going to create a structure by
which you withhold evidence that
would be relevant to the decision the
Senate makes because—well, just be-
cause—it becomes the new rule. I am
not here to say what goes around
comes around; I am telling you that
once you make the decision that ‘‘You
don’t need to see evidence on a par-
ticular nominee because we are not
going to give it to you because we
think it might be damaging,’’ that be-
comes the new rule. Then, all of a sud-
den, there will become a day when my
friends on the other side of the aisle
want evidence they are not getting ei-
ther. The withholding of documents
really matters. If we can’t make sound
decisions, then this whole institution
becomes weaker.
Second, I want to move to last
Thursday’s hearing. I think there is
also some precedent-shattering deci-
sions we are making in the wake of
what was a stunning performance by a
nominee before the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
Let me talk about the lies.
I believe Dr. Ford. I think she was
credible, thoughtful. Everything she
said in that hearing seemed to be an ef-
fort to try to get to the truth. I, frank-
ly, don’t know whether Judge
Kavanaugh wasn’t telling the truth or
legitimately doesn’t remember what
happened because he was so intoxi-
cated.
I can set aside the question of wheth-
er Judge Kavanaugh was telling the
truth about that particular assault and
still have serious concerns about all of
the other smaller lies he told during
the testimony.
I understand some of the stuff that
came up was embarrassing to him,
some of these terms and phrases. Yet
he was asked the questions, and no
matter how embarrassing it was to
talk about what boofing is or what a
devil’s triangle is, he was obligated to
tell the truth, and he didn’t. We have
plenty of corroborating evidence to
suggest that he and his friends knew
exactly what those terms mean, knew
exactly what they were referring to
with respect to the young women with
whom they were part of an alumni
club.
I know it sounds trivial to be talking
on the Senate floor about words and
phrases that high school kids were
using. The fact that they were using
those terms, said certain things when
they were kids, doesn’t bother me at
all. What bothers me is that a nominee
for the Supreme Court has such a cas-
ual association with the truth that he
couldn’t admit to us what were some
embarrassing admissions and lied in-
stead.
The precedent of letting a nominee
get away with that—even if you don’t
believe he told a big lie, even if you
only believe the mistruths were on the
smaller things—is another precedent-
shattering decision, because all of a
sudden, we send the message to people
who want to apply for the most impor-
tant jobs in the world that telling the
truth is not that important.
I get it. The cat is out of the bag. The
horse has left the barn. I get it that the
top of the Pandora’s Box is open. We
have a President of the United States
who doesn’t tell the truth every single
day. We have a President of the United
States who goes on Twitter and makes
up stuff about U.S. Senators. Our big-
ger problem is not the small
mistruths—the potentially small
mistruths of Brett Kavanaugh’s; our
bigger problem is that we have a Presi-
dent who literally can’t get through a
day without making up something.
That sends a worse message to our
kids than the mistruths of Brett
Kavanaugh, but, nonetheless, the Su-
preme Court is the Supreme Court. It
is a lifetime appointment. At least if
an Executive gets into office and starts
making stuff up, we can get rid of him
or her after 4 years—not the Supreme
Court. You send somebody up to the
Supreme Court who fibs, and that indi-
vidual is there forever. Thus, maybe
our standards should be a little bit
higher.
Third, I want to talk about Judge
Kavanaugh’s disposition in that hear-
ing and some of the things he said
about how the allegations came for-
ward. I talked about this on the Senate
floor, I think, now 2 days ago. So I will
not repeat it all. But his belief that Dr.
Ford’s allegations or Ms. Ramirez’s al-
legations came forward as part of some
vast conspiracy led by progressive
groups and Democratic Senators on be-
half of Hillary and Bill Clinton is delu-
sional.
I understand that politics in this
town are rough. We have all been sub-
ject to character attacks we think are
unfair, but that doesn’t mean there are
these vast cabals of people on the left
and the right wing who are out there
spinning tales on a daily basis about
each other.
What we know is that Dr. Ford
brought this forward to her Member of
Congress before Brett Kavanaugh was
even the nominee. What we know is
that it got leaked to the press, likely
by somebody who didn’t have an inter-
est in Brett Kavanaugh as a nominee,
but not by a Democratic Senator.
What we know is that the allegations
that followed came out as a con-
sequence of that first allegation. There
is zero evidence that there is some
grand conspiracy of Democrats in
league with the Clintons to try to bury
Brett Kavanaugh.
Further evidence of that is that if
that were our MO, why did we wait a
year and a half to employ it on Brett
Kavanaugh? If Democrats’ method of
operation was to gin up a whole bunch
of false allegations about individuals
and make accusations about sexual as-
sault that weren’t true just to muddy
them up and smear them, why didn’t it
occur to Neil Gorsuch who, frankly, en-
gendered much more hostility among
many of our friends and backers, be-
cause that was the seat that we believe
was stolen from Merrick Garland. Why
didn’t we gin up those kinds of allega-
tions about the President’s early nomi-
nees to the Cabinet who, frankly, spun
up a lot more grassroots anger than
Brett Kavanaugh did in the summer of
2018?
The answer is because this wasn’t a
conspiracy. This wasn’t a whole bunch
of Democratic Senators sitting around.
These allegations came out organi-
cally, and whether or not you believe
they are true, to go before the Judici-
ary Committee as a judge and make
the allegation that there is a con-
spiracy including Democratic Senators
against you, when you have no evi-
dence for it, tells us all we need to
know about your fitness to serve on the
Bench.
If you are making things up in order
to fit the narrative that you think will
be most helpful to make your case be-
fore the Senate, why would we think
that you wouldn’t do the same thing on
the Court, which leads me to the most
troubling passage of his testimony, and
I heard Senator LEE launch a defense of
it. I have heard others launch a defense
of it, but I watched it again before I
came down to the Senate floor just to
make sure that I had it right.
At the end of his diatribe against
Democrats, at the end of this descrip-
tion of a Clinton-connected conspiracy
that he believes is launched against
him, he uses this phrase—and I am
paraphrasing the beginning of this. He
says: As we all know in the political
world of the early 2000s, ‘‘what comes
around, goes around.’’
Now, I listened to it again today just
to make sure that that wasn’t a lead-in
to some other thought, and it wasn’t.
He starts a new thought after that. He
starts talking about how he is a gen-
erally optimistic guy.
The passage about the conspiracy
theory and about how badly he has
been treated by the Democrats ends
with a punctuation point right before
which is the admonition ‘‘what comes
around, goes around.’’
There is little way to read that other
than as a threat to those who are going
to oppose him in the Senate and to
those political interest groups outside
the Senate who are working to oppose
him.
I don’t think I am making too much
of this, and I know that last night in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05OC6.117 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6641
October 5, 2018
the Wall Street Journal Brett
Kavanaugh wrote a somewhat apolo-
getic op-ed in which he said that he
might have gotten a little bit too heat-
ed at times in the hearing. He didn’t
specifically refer to which statements
he would take back, but that line—
‘‘what comes around, goes around’’—
and those allegations about this dan-
gerous Democratic-led conspiracy the-
ory weren’t statements that he just
came up with in the heat of the mo-
ment. Those were statements in his
prepared text. Those were statements
that he wrote down on paper, thought
about overnight, thought about again
as he listened to Dr. Ford’s testimony,
and then read before the Judiciary
Committee: ‘‘What comes around, goes
around.’’
How does any petitioner who is
aligned with any of the groups that
Judge Kavanaugh might think was in-
volved in the political opposition to his
candidacy have faith that they will get
a fair audience before the Supreme
Court when Judge Kavanaugh is on it?
Do you really think, given how angry
he was, given what he believes was or-
ganized against him, that he is going
to fairly give causes aligned with
Democrats a fair shot before the Court?
Do you really think he now can say
that he will be a neutral-colored um-
pire as a Supreme Court Justice?
Here is why this is a precedent-
breaking decision that we are making.
In the past, we have actually put polit-
ical people on the Supreme Court. We
have. Centuries ago we selected people
for the Supreme Court who had actu-
ally served in political positions. That
was at a time when our politics was,
maybe, a little bit less heated, where
there was more opportunity for com-
mon ground. But in recent times, that
has not been the way in which we have
selected people for the Supreme Court.
We traditionally select jurists.
There has been in the American pub-
lic this belief that even in a super po-
litically charged time, there are at
least nine people who are above all of
that, who are above the regular par-
tisan barbs and allegations that we
tend too often to throw at each other.
Those nine people are on the Supreme
Court, and that is really important, be-
cause once the American public starts
to think that the Supreme Court is
just another political arm, that is the
day when the rule of law really starts
to fall apart.
That is why nominees to the Court
are so careful not to unveil any polit-
ical bias, even if they may have one,
because they don’t want to shatter
that image that the American public
still has, by and large, that at least
those nine people are immune from the
political biases that we hold here in
the Senate.
Well, that belief has been forever
compromised because Judge
Kavanaugh has told you his political
bias. He has told you what he thinks of
Democrats, and now he is headed for
the Supreme Court.
Senator LEE spent some time earlier
this evening talking about Federalist
No. 78. Senator LEE is not the only one
who has read Federalist Papers.
Federalist No. 78 is an important one.
It is where Hamilton lays out the im-
portance of seeing the judiciary dif-
ferent than the legislative body, and
Senator LEE got it right. He talks
about the judiciary exercising judg-
ments, whereas the legislature exer-
cises will. That is a good way to think
about the difference between the two.
Yet inside Federalist No. 78 is an-
other idea that is really, really impor-
tant. What he says inside that docu-
ment is this. Hamilton says:
I agree, that ‘‘there is no liberty, if the
power of judging be not separated from the
legislative and executive powers.’’ And it
proves, in the last place, that as liberty can
have nothing to fear from the judiciary
alone, but would have everything to fear
from its union with either of the other de-
partments. . . .
Hamilton is saying in that edition of
the Federalist Papers that the judici-
ary is the weakest of the three
branches because it doesn’t have the
power of the sword as the executive
does, nor the power of the purse as the
legislative branch does. Though he ad-
mits that the judiciary can overrule an
act of Congress and that gives it power,
he suggests that so long as the execu-
tive is independent and is not a tool or
a part of the legislative branch or the
executive branch, we have nothing to
fear.
Now, he doesn’t lay it out in as ex-
plicit terms as I might today, but what
he is essentially saying is that the ju-
diciary has to be apolitical. As long as
it is apolitical, you have nothing to
worry about because it doesn’t have
some of the inherent powers of the
branches in article I and article II.
We have broken through that wall in
the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh.
By making these blatantly partisan al-
legations, by associating himself in his
confirmation hearing so clearly with
one side of the partisan fight inside the
U.S. Congress, he has now brought at
least his seat on the Supreme Court
that much closer to one of the two de-
partments that Hamilton feared would
ultimately become joined.
Alexander Hamilton spent a lot of
time thinking about the importance
and writing about the importance of an
independent judiciary. Brett
Kavanaugh, by jumping into the polit-
ical fray, by translating his biases, has
started to break down that wall.
Now, I don’t want to be apocalyptic
about this. Maybe what I am sug-
gesting is that it just is going to make
it a lot easier to put more people on
the Supreme Court who are more and
more political, ultimately continuing
to tear down that wall.
Lastly, I want to talk for a moment
about the investigation that took place
regarding some of these allegations.
One of the precedent-shattering deci-
sions that was made was the decision
on behalf of the majority to do no work
to try to figure out whether those who
were making these allegations were
telling the truth, beyond a hastily
scheduled hearing in which only two
witnesses were called, as compared to
the Anita Hill hearings, where there
were over 20 witnesses called. It was a
sham of a process. That is not too
strong a word. There was not an at-
tempt to get to the truth. There was an
attempt to provide cover, to make it
look as if the Senate was having a fair
hearing.
There was also no intention to do
what had been done back during the
Clarence Thomas nomination—to have
the FBI go out and gather some facts
for themselves.
It was only because of a last-minute
demand by a handful of Republican
Senators that the FBI went out and
conducted an investigation but was
given only 1 week to do that investiga-
tion.
There is reporting in the New York
Times today that suggests that the
White House intentionally limited the
scope of that investigation, but, frank-
ly, I didn’t need the New York Times
to tell me that that is how this went
down. I read the report, and it was very
clear in that report that the FBI could
do some things and couldn’t do other
things.
This is not me telling you this. I am
referring to independent reporting that
only eight people were actually inter-
viewed, and there were clearly some
subjects that were off limits in those
interviews and some things that would
have been very important for Congress
to know that we cannot know because
those interviews only went so far.
Now the Times is reporting that that
was intentional. In fact, the Times re-
ports that the President’s Chief Coun-
sel told the President that if there was
a full investigation of all of the claims
and all potential claims around Judge
Kavanaugh, it would be very bad for
his nomination.
So I think the FBI do good work, but
not when they are given unfair param-
eters around their investigation. That,
in and of itself, is another precedent-
shattering decision, constraining the
FBI when they are trying to go out and
gather facts for us.
Yet another precedent-shattering de-
cision was the way in which we were
allowed to see the report. It was one of
the most humiliating things I have
ever gone through as a U.S. Senator—
to sit in a secure room with 10 of my
other colleagues, with 60 minutes to re-
view a document, look at it, digest it,
and ask questions about it. The scene
was chaotic.
We are sitting there with a bunch of
our colleagues, trying to share dif-
ferent pieces of the report: I will read
that page. You read that page. Wait.
Did I read page 6? Wait. Do you have
page 7? Oh, boy, we have to get out of
here because we only have 60 minutes.
It was not becoming of the U.S. Sen-
ate, and it didn’t have to go down like
that. It would have been easy for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05OC6.118 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6642 October 5, 2018
Senate majority leader to work out an
arrangement with the White House to
have more than one copy of the FBI re-
port. And, of course, the Senate leader-
ship could have given us more than a
half day to review that report.
Neither of those things happened,
and they have consequences because
the next time there is a complication,
there is incentive to do the same thing
again—to rush a nominee through the
process.
I have with me a statement from a
gentleman by the name of Keith
Koegler. This is a statement that
comes to the Senate from Christine
Blasey Ford’s lawyers. It is a state-
ment of an individual whom the FBI
did not interview. This is a friend of
Dr. Ford’s who had conversations with
Dr. Ford prior to Judge Kavanaugh’s
nomination regarding the allegations
of assault that Dr. Ford told the
committee. One of the things he says
here is that he has a copy of an email
thread ‘‘between Christine and me’’ in
which he made it clear that Brett
Kavanaugh was the judge who as-
saulted her as a teenager.
He says: ‘‘We exchanged those emails
. . . two days after Justice Kennedy’s
retirement announcement, before there
was a shortlist for his replacement.’’
He is submitting this to us so that we
can put it in the RECORD, given the fact
that it was not included in the FBI’s
investigation, because they never came
and interviewed Mr. Koegler.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that this document be printed in
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
KEITH KOEGLER,
Palo Alto, CA, October 5, 2018.
MEMBERS OF THE U.S. SENATE: My name is
Keith Koegler. I am one of Christine Blasey
Ford’s corroborating witnesses. For those of
you who aren’t lawyers, the term ‘‘corrobo-
rating witness’’ is not synonymous with ‘‘eye
witness’’—someone can be a corroborating
witness without having physically been
present at the scene of a crime. Indeed, in
matters involving sexual assault, there are
often no eyewitnesses.
Since attending the hearing 8 days ago, I
have grown increasingly concerned that Sen-
ators would ignore the import of Christine’s
testimony in their rush to confirm Judge
Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. For
the record:
I believe, with every fiber of my being,
that Christine Blasey Ford has testified
truthfully about her assault by Brett
Kavanaugh. I have the benefit of knowing
Christine, but if you saw her testimony and
you didn’t find her credible, you know noth-
ing about sexual assault.
The process by which the Senate Judiciary
Committee has ‘‘investigated’’ the facts re-
lating to the assault has been a shameless ef-
fort to protect Judge Kavanaugh. The fact
that the FBI did not interview either Chris-
tine or Judge Kavanaugh, by itself, renders
absurd any assertion that the investigation
was ‘‘thorough.’’ There are a minimum of 7
additional people, known to the White
House, the Senate Judiciary Committee and
the FBI who knew about the assault prior to
the nomination who were not interviewed. I
am one of them.
Here are some of the things the FBI would
have learned by interviewing me:
I have a copy of the email thread between
Christine and me in which she made it clear
that Brett Kavanaugh was the judge who had
assaulted her as a teenager. We exchanged
those emails on June 29, 2018, two days after
Justice Kennedy’s retirement announce-
ment, before there was a shortlist for his re-
placement. It wasn’t until July 9, 2018 that
the President nominated Judge Kavanaugh.
Christine has accurately described the se-
quence of events that occurred in the months
that followed, including her interactions
with the Washington Post, Representative
Anna Eshoo’s office and Senator Diane Fein-
stein’s office. I know because I had regular
contact with her during that time.
There was no ‘‘grand-conspiracy’’ to con-
duct a ‘‘political hit job’’ on Judge
Kavanaugh—this was always about one
woman struggling with a perverse choice:
Suffer a brutal toll on herself and her family
to fulfill a sense of civic duty and (possibly,
though not likely) avoid spending the rest of
her life looking at the face of the man who
assaulted her as a teenager on the United
States Supreme Court or, alternatively, live
in silence with the knowledge that she might
have been able to make a difference.
Christine has been afraid of flying her en-
tire adult life. Prosecutor Rachel Mitchell
repeatedly challenged Christine about her
fear of flying, in an effort to impugn
Christine’s general credibility. I could have
provided the FBI with the names of at least
half a dozen people who have flown with
Christine and can attest to the fact that she
has panic attacks before she flies. She con-
trols those attacks with medicine prescribed
by a doctor.
As Senator Flake anticipated in a speech
before the hearing last week, coming forward
has forced Christine, her husband and their
two sons to endure treatment that no human
being should have to suffer. Within hours
after the first news story, throngs of report-
ers descended on their home, driving the
family (perhaps permanently) out of the
neighborhood. The family has been subjected
to a near constant barrage of harassing
emails, phone calls and social media attacks
(‘‘die, you fucking cunt’’), many of them ob-
viously coordinated and many threatening
death or bodily harm. Because of the at-
tacks, Christine hasn’t spent more than 3
consecutive nights in the same place. They
have had to hire a security firm 24/7, and
they have to be transported from place to
place in secret. Christine hasn’t slept more
than 3 hours at a time since September 16th.
She has trouble eating. She has had to relin-
quish her teaching responsibilities for the se-
mester. And the list goes on. Perhaps For-
ever.
I have no power. I can only ask you to do
what is right. Please ask yourselves if you
want to spend the rest of your lives looking
at the face of Brett Kavanaugh, the man who
lied about assaulting Christine Blasey Ford
as a teenager, on the United States Supreme
Court.
DECLARATION OF KEITH KOEGLE
I, Keith Koegler, hereby state that I am
over eighteen (18) years of age, am com-
petent to testify, and have personal knowl-
edge of the following facts:
1. I graduated from Amherst College in 1992
with a Bachelor’s Degree in History. I earned
my Juris Doctor decree from Vanderbilt Law
School in 1997.
2. I have known Christine Blasey Ford and
her husband. Russell Ford, for more than
five years, and consider them close friends.
3. We met when I was coaching their son’s
baseball team. Our children are close friends
and have played sports together for years. I
have spent a lot of time with Christine and
her husband traveling to and attending our
kids’ games. Our families have also gone on
vacation together.
4. The first time I learned that Christine
had experienced sexual assault was in early
summer of 2016. We were standing together
in a public place watching our children play
together.
5. I remember the timing of the conversa-
tion because it was shortly after Stanford
University student Brock Turner was sen-
tenced for felony sexual assault after raping
an unconscious woman on Stanford’s cam-
pus. There was a common public perception
that the judge gave Mr. Turner too light of
a sentence.
6. Christine expressed anger at Mr. Turn-
er’s lenient sentence, stating that she was
particularly bothered he it because she was
assaulted in high school by a man who was
now a federal judge in Washington, D.C.
7. Christine did not mention the assault to
me again until June 29, 2018, two days after
Justice Anthony Kennedy announced his res-
ignation from the Supreme Court of the
United States.
8. On June 29, 2018, she wrote me an email
in which she stated that the person who as-
saulted her in high school was the Presi-
dent’s ‘‘favorite for SCOTUS.’’
9 On June 29, 2018, I responded with an
email in which I stated:
‘‘I remember you telling me about him. but
I don’t remember his name. Do you mind
telling me so I can read about him?’’
10. Christine responded by email and stat-
ed:
‘‘Brett Kavanaugh’’
11. In all of my dealings with Christine I
have known her to be a serious and honor-
able person.
I solemnly swear or affirm under the pen-
alties of perjury that the matters set forth
in this Declaration are true and correct to
the best of my personal knowledge, informa-
tion, and belief, Executed on this 24th day of
September, 2018.
KEITH KOEGLER.
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, this is
just one piece of evidence that none of
us saw prior to this moment that would
have provided important back up to Dr.
Ford’s testimony. I don’t know why
this person wasn’t interviewed who can
testify that Dr. Ford told him of this
abuse before Judge Kavanaugh was
placed on any shortlist.
I don’t know if the FBI made their
own decision not to talk to this indi-
vidual, whether they were time-limited
so that they were unable to get to him
or whether the White House told them
whom they could interview and whom
they couldn’t, but this would have been
really important information for us to
have beforehand.
I will end where I ended the other
day. All of these decisions that have
been made, I think, have long-term
consequences for this body. I am not
saying that we can’t recover from this.
We are all adults. I do believe that ev-
erybody here in the Senate believes in
this place and wants it to be better. I
don’t run into many people on either
side of the aisle who are having a lot of
fun these days, given the fact that we
can’t get along on almost anything ex-
cept for the budget, which is not insig-
nificant.
So I have to trust, as a relatively
new entrant to this place, that we can
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05OC6.119 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6643
October 5, 2018
do better, that we can try to learn
from what has happened here. The
damage has been done at this point to
survivors of sexual assault who are
going to be thinking twice about com-
ing forward because they are not going
to be believed. The damage has been
done to the precedent surrounding
nominations to the judiciary. The dam-
age has been done to the idea of objec-
tive truth and the belief that folks who
are applying for important jobs should
tell the truth. But I have faith that we
can learn from what happened here and
try to be better the next time.
Ultimately, what I think about a lot
and what I have thought about a lot
these last few weeks is this: Why Brett
Kavanaugh?
I come back to where I began. At the
outset, I said that our standard should
be educated by the fact that there is
not one person in the world, in the
United States, who is qualified for this
job. There are lots of them. So if you
have serious doubts or reservations
about an individual, you can move on
to the next person. That is what
George Washington did when John Rut-
ledge was rejected by the Senate. He
had somebody else who was great in re-
serve—a great early American, Oliver
Ellsworth.
There are, no doubt, other conserv-
ative jurists who would probably fulfill
most of the jurisprudential aims of the
Republican majority just as well as
Brett Kavanaugh. It can’t be because
Brett Kavanaugh is the essential man.
So given all of these doubts, given all
of these allegations, given his prece-
dent-breaking performance before the
Judiciary Committee, why stick with
Brett Kavanaugh? This is what I come
back to when I try to answer that ques-
tion for myself.
I know that it is hard being a Repub-
lican today. Your party doesn’t look
like it did 10 years ago because you
have a President who really doesn’t
have an ideological core. He doesn’t
have a set of beliefs. He is a cult of per-
sonality. He makes it up as he goes
along. So it is difficult being a Repub-
lican in Congress today because the
party is just fundamentally different
than it was 5 years ago, and there is
very little that binds together a Presi-
dent without an ideological core and
Republicans in the Senate who do have
a set of beliefs that they are fairly reg-
ularly consistent about. I know that is
uncomfortable. So I fear that the rea-
son the Senate Republican majority is
sticking with Brett Kavanaugh is be-
cause the one thing on which can agree
with this President is your antipathy
for the Democratic minority.
There is this theme—this phrase on
social media—that gets used by the
right, called ‘‘owning the libs.’’ It is
the idea that you win if you dominate
your opponents. Winning isn’t about
passing a bill. Winning isn’t about
doing something good for the country.
Winning is about owning your political
opposition.
I worry that is what this is about—
that we are sticking with Brett
Kavanaugh even with all of these prob-
lems and questions that surround him
because the worry is that to give up on
him and move on to somebody else
would be a show of weakness and would
be interpreted as a victory for Demo-
crats. The one thing that binds to-
gether congressional Republicans and
this President is an unwillingness to
give Democrats any perception of vic-
tory.
Now, it wouldn’t really be a victory
for Democrats because we know there
would be another conservative Jus-
tice—maybe, one even more conserv-
ative than Brett Kavanaugh—who
would be coming down the pike. But
maybe in the short term, it would be
scored that way, and thus, it becomes
unacceptable.
It is sort of the definition of power
politics—dominance no matter the
cost, no matter the policy implica-
tions, no matter the precedent. I might
be wrong about this. It may be that my
colleagues just feel like Brett
Kavanaugh is telling the truth on ev-
erything, down to the definition of
some of those terms, or maybe they see
a talent in him that is unique that the
rest of us don’t see.
But I worry that what matters in
this place these days is just winning,
and I worry about that for Democrats
too. I worry that ultimately what
drives us when we get up in the morn-
ing in Washington, DC, these days is
just beating the other side—that it is
just a game, that it is just an athletic
contest, and that we have become what
the news media and the cable shows
want us to be, a sporting event.
I think that of late my Republican
colleagues have been more guilty of
this than Democratic colleagues. I
have that bias, I admit it. I am allowed
to have it as a partisan, but I believe it
exists on both sides of this body. This,
I would argue, is just the worst episode
of that desire for political dominance
and something that we should all, in
the wake of this nomination, step back
from and think long and hard about.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
GARDNER). The clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I rise today as the Senate has been
called upon to fulfill our constitutional
duty to give advice and consent on
President Trump’s nominee to the Su-
preme Court, Brett Kavanaugh.
In the past, Presidents worked with a
bipartisan Senate to appoint someone
who understood the importance of
precedence and transparency, who re-
spected the independent integrity of
the highest Court in the land. Unfortu-
nately, that did not happen during the
nomination process. Instead, the proc-
ess was flawed to fast track a nominee
without a full vetting for political
gain.
Brett Kavanaugh was handpicked by
the Federalist Society, a rightwing lob-
bying organization dedicated to over-
turning Roe v. Wade. Why? Because, as
he has made clear on several occasions,
President Trump wants to stack the
Court with Justices who will overturn
Roe v. Wade.
Now, I am new to the Senate, and as
long as I have been here, I have been
told that this is not regular order. As
we went through this confirmation
hearing, unfortunately, I found it,
along with my colleagues, to be fast
tracked.
I take very seriously my role of ad-
vice and consent when it comes to a
nominee, and I think we all as Sen-
ators have an equal vote. We should all
have access to all of the information
and a full vetting of any nominee who
wants to sit on the highest Court for a
lifetime appointment.
Think about it—a lifetime appoint-
ment. There are only nine members.
This is something that we should all
look for—the right person—and every-
one should have a full vetting, but this
hearing was fast-tracked. Not only was
it fast-tracked, but we did not have ac-
cess to all of the documents necessary
to determine whether Brett Kavanaugh
had the correct judicial philosophy and
the judicial temperament and impar-
tiality that is necessary for somebody
to sit on the highest Court of the land.
Not only were we limited in the num-
ber of documents, but what little docu-
ments we did get, unfortunately, on
some of them were marked ‘‘committee
confidential’’ in an effort to prevent
Members from using documents to
question the witness. By unilaterally
declaring them committee confiden-
tial, many of my colleagues in the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee hearing were
unable to adequately question Judge
Kavanaugh. I am told that this process
of marking ‘‘committee confidential’’
is without precedent.
Republicans claim that Chairman
LEAHY also accepted documents on a
‘‘committee confidential’’ basis during
the Kagan nomination. Those docu-
ments were processed by the National
Archives, not private, partisan law-
yers, and Republicans did not object.
By the time of her hearing, 99 per-
cent of Elena Kagan’s White House
records were publicly available and
could be used freely by any Member. In
contrast, the committee has only seen
7 percent of Brett Kavanaugh’s White
House records and only 4 percent were
made available to the public. No Sen-
ate or committee rule grants the chair-
man unilateral authority to designate
documents ‘‘committee confidential’’
and prohibit their public release. Nei-
ther the rules of the Senate nor the
rules of the committee authorize the
unilateral designation.
There was no committee action and
Ranking Member FEINSTEIN sent a let-
ter stating she did not agree with a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.002 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6644 October 5, 2018
blanket designation, and she asked the
chairman to work with her to identify
the subset of documents that should re-
main confidential, and he refused.
But the chairman released thousands
of documents himself. Specifically, he
released thousands of documents that
had previously been marked ‘‘com-
mittee confidential,’’ after consulting
with Mr. Burck. If these were com-
mittee confidential documents, then,
the chairman’s actions would be a vio-
lation of Senate rules. The Senate
rules provide a penalty for disclosing
‘‘the secret or confidential business or
proceedings of the Senate’’ but it re-
quires a vote or a committee action to
conduct confidential business or pro-
ceedings.
Democrats cannot be held to a dif-
ferent standard. Chairman GRASSLEY
has asserted that Mr. Burck has sole
authority to decide what documents
may be used to question Judge
Kavanaugh and sole authority to de-
cide which documents may be released
to the public. However, he has failed to
cite any rule or statute that gives Mr.
Burck any authority.
We should not move forward with
hearings when we only had a fraction
of the nominee’s record, and the most
significant document we had remains
hidden from public view.
The chairman claimed that he pro-
vided ample opportunity for Democrats
to clear committee-confidential docu-
ments for use at the hearing, but he re-
fused the request of several Members to
make documents on a number of topics
public.
I also want to make it clear that as
I watched that hearing, there were al-
legations that Members of the Senate
didn’t even show up to take a look at
these confidential documents, so why
were we complaining. I will tell you
what, I showed up. I was there for 3
days looking at all of these documents
because I thought it was necessary,
even if we were going to be limited in
what we could see and what we could
talk about. I have a voice equal like
everyone else, and I should have access
to those documents and figure out if I
had the opportunity to talk to Judge
Kavanaugh or talk with my colleagues
about it, then I should have access to
those documents, but even when we
had access, the chairman demanded
that Democrats send him their docu-
ments for preclearance by his staff,
President Bush’s lawyers, and the
White House.
My understanding is, never before
have minority members of the com-
mittee been required to identify and
preclear the topics and documents they
want to discuss with a Supreme Court
nominee with the chairman or outside
private lawyers in the White House;
never has a majority asserted unilat-
eral authority to preclear what issues
the minority party can even ask a
nominee.
The idea that Democrats have to ask
Republicans to preclear their questions
in a Senate Judiciary Committee hear-
ing is outrageous. If the chairman, Bill
Burck, and the Trump White House
were truly interested in a transparent
process, Mr. Burck and the White
House could make the White House
Counsel records public now, as Presi-
dent Obama and former President Clin-
ton did for the Kagan nomination, but
we still don’t have access to all of the
documents.
We still have a process that is bro-
ken. We still have a process that, un-
fortunately, did not provide all of the
Senators the opportunity to have a full
vetting of Brett Kavanaugh. I took my
time. I reviewed Judge Kavanaugh’s
record. I looked at his cases, his writ-
ten statements; I listened to his com-
ments in the hearing; I went and
viewed the committee-confidential doc-
uments. I wanted an opportunity to
meet with him. Unfortunately, that
never happened, so I couldn’t question
him myself.
Based on all of the information and
based on taking my time—like I did
with our previous nominee because it is
that important that we get the right
person on the bench—in his statements
and in his writings and opinions, it was
clear to me that Brett Kavanaugh has
shown he does not respect precedent.
He does not respect a woman’s right to
choose. He does not respect workers’
rights.
If confirmed, I believe Judge
Kavanaugh’s extreme activist judicial
philosophy will pose a threat to
women, our environment, our constitu-
tional separation of powers, and our
fundamental civil rights, but it is not
just Brett Kavanaugh’s judicial philos-
ophy that troubles me.
Last week, Judge Kavanaugh testi-
fied before the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee to defend himself against sexual
assault allegations. He was asking for
our vote for a lifetime appointment to
the Supreme Court—one of the deepest
and most profound honors this Nation
can bestow upon a citizen. This nomi-
nee was interviewing for a job in front
of the American people, and he was bel-
ligerent, evasive, and aggressive. This
nominee, who currently sits as an ap-
pellate court judge on the DC Circuit
Court, disregarded all demeanor and re-
spect for impartiality and independ-
ence by accusing the Democrats of en-
gaging in ‘‘a calculated and orches-
trated political hit fueled with appar-
ent pent-up anger about President
Trump and the 2016 election, fear that
has been unfairly stoked about my ju-
dicial record, revenge on behalf of the
Clintons, and millions of dollars in
money from outside left-wing opposi-
tion groups.’’
He then took it even further by stat-
ing: ‘‘And as we all know in the United
States political system of the early
2000s, what goes around, comes
around.’’
‘‘What goes around comes around,’’
are those the words of an impartial
judge? Of course not. During the ques-
tion-and-answer period with the Sen-
ators, he was belligerent, impatient,
and aggressive toward anyone who
pressed him to get to the truth.
His demonstrated lack of tempera-
ment and impartiality is another rea-
son I cannot support him. It is also
why over 2,400 law professors, from re-
spected law schools across this coun-
try, penned a letter to the Senators to
state that the Senate should not con-
firm Judge Kavanaugh—some of these
very law professors who also appeared
before the U.S. Supreme Court; some of
these very law professors who also
practiced and teach at Yale and Har-
vard. They wrote:
Judicial temperament is one of the most
important qualities of a judge. A judge re-
quires a personality that is even-handed, un-
biased, impartial, courteous, yet firm, and
dedicated to a process, not a result.
They further stated:
At the Senate hearings on September 27,
Judge Brett Kavanaugh displayed a lack of
judicial temperament that would be disquali-
fying for any court, and certainly for ele-
vation to the highest Court of this land.
Former Supreme Court Justice John
Paul Stevens, a Republican appointed
by President Ford, stated similar con-
cerns:
When I watched Judge Kavanaugh’s testi-
mony, I didn’t see a fair and impartial Jus-
tice. I saw a man who is blinded by rage and
ideology. As a sitting judge, Brett
Kavanaugh knows better.
His accuser, Dr. Christine Blasey
Ford, testified before the Senate Judi-
ciary Committee for 4 hours. She was
poised, serious, and credible recounting
what was clearly one of the most scar-
ring, traumatic experiences of her life,
and she did it on live television for all
the world to hear. She did it in the face
of death threats. She did it at the risk
of damaging her credibility and career.
She had nothing to gain. She has done
a profound service to everyone whose
life has been touched by sexual assault
or abuse.
Dr. Ford, I believe you, and I thank
you for your courage in coming for-
ward. I believe in a fair and inde-
pendent process for people who have
been accused of serious crimes like sex-
ual assault, and the process should in-
clude a neutral investigation that is
thorough and nonpartisan because it
will hold a perpetrator accountable or
exonerate the falsely accused. But that
fair and independent process did not
occur this time. I am glad some of my
colleagues stood up to make sure the
FBI had a chance to reopen its back-
ground investigation. I will tell you
what, after reading the recent FBI re-
port, it is clear Republican leadership
limited its scope, and I say that as
somebody who not only has been a
prosecutor for 10 years, 8 years the at-
torney general of the State of Nevada,
who has conducted criminal investiga-
tions and oversaw peace officers who
did the same thing.
What they did not do, they did not
interview Dr. Ford, nor obtain from her
the important medical records that
would corroborate her testimony. In
fact, her attorneys wrote to the FBI of-
fering up not only additional witnesses
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.003 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6645
October 5, 2018
but making the statement that if they
were to interview Dr. Ford, she would
have also provided corroborating evi-
dence, including her medical records
and access to the phone from which she
messaged the Washington Post about
Judge Kavanaugh’s assault prior to his
nomination to the Supreme Court. I
am here to tell you, corroborating evi-
dence isn’t just in the form of witness
statements; it is in the form of docu-
mentation that is key, and that was
never recovered by the FBI.
I will tell you, the potential wit-
nesses that potentially the FBI could
have talked to, we know—we know be-
cause they came forward out of a civic
duty and they went public, and the FBI
still did not talk to them. We know Dr.
Blasey Ford’s husband, Russell Ford,
said Christine shared the details of the
sexual assault during a couple’s ther-
apy session in 2012. She said that in
high school, she had been trapped in a
room and physically restrained by one
boy who was molesting her while an-
other boy watched, and Dr. Ford’s hus-
band said: ‘‘I remember her saying that
the attacker’s name was Brett
Kavanaugh’’ in 2012—2012.
Along with her husband, Adela Gildo-
Mazzo, a friend of Dr. Blasey Ford,
came forward and said:
In June of 2013, Christine said that she had
been almost raped by someone who was now
a Federal judge. She told me she had been
trapped in a room with two drunken guys,
and that she then escaped, ran away, and
hid.
A third witness, somebody who could
have corroborated Dr. Ford’s state-
ment, Lynne Brookes, Brett
Kavanaugh’s college friend, who said:
‘‘There is no doubt in my mind that
while at Yale, he was a big partier,
often drank to excess, and there had to
be a number of nights where he does
not remember.’’
So I know—and unfortunately too
often we have seen in this particular
case an FBI supplemental report that
was not thorough. In addition, after I
reviewed the summary of the report
and realized we were missing informa-
tion, the additional corroborations
would have also gone to Debbie Rami-
rez’s allegations, but the FBI did not
interview important witnesses to cor-
roborate Debbie Ramirez’s allegations.
We now know—because they have
been again willing to come forward
after seeing what has been happening
through these hearings—Kenneth
Appold, a suitemate of Brett
Kavanaugh at Yale, who is now a pro-
fessor at Princeton, stated: ‘‘I can cor-
roborate Debbie’s account.’’ He said: ‘‘I
believe her because it matches the
same story I heard 35 years ago, al-
though the two of us have never
talked.’’ Professor Appold was never
interviewed.
Likewise, James Roche was also a
roommate of Brett Kavanaugh, and he
said: ‘‘Although Brett was normally re-
served, he was a notably heavy drinker,
even by the standards of the time, and
that he became aggressive and bellig-
erent when he was very drunk.’’
Likewise, Chad Luddington, a college
classmate came forward: ‘‘I can un-
equivocally say that in denying the
possibility that he ever blacked out
from drinking and in downplaying the
degree and frequency of his drinking,
Brett has not told the truth.’’
They were not interviewed by the
FBI. So now, because we have only lim-
ited information, all Senators are left
with a lack of a full understanding of
the facts surrounding the allegations
against Brett Kavanaugh.
The questions swirling around Brett
Kavanaugh get at the very heart of our
responsibility as Members of the U.S.
Senate. We are not here to be a
rubberstamp on the President’s nomi-
nees. We are a check and balance on his
power. We are here to work with him
to make decisions that are right for
the American people. That means we
listen to our constituents. That in-
cludes women and men who have bur-
ied their experiences of trauma for far
too long.
I have received letters from my con-
stituents from all over Nevada sharing
their stories of survival. I heard from
men and women in our military who
were struggling not just with the ef-
fects of PTSD but with the experience
of being sexually abused.
I recently met with women who led
the campaign to codify a woman’s
right to choose in the Nevada State
Constitution, and they all asked me to
oppose Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination,
and I stand with them. I stand with
survivors. I stand for the right of every
American woman to make her own
healthcare decisions. I believe Dr.
Christine Blasey Ford. I believe in the
integrity and independence of our judi-
cial system.
I condemn Brett Kavanaugh’s
confrontational and partisan behavior,
and I condemn the handling of this
nomination by Senate Republican lead-
ers.
We must work together, in a bipar-
tisan way, and restore our constitu-
tional role of advice and consent. This
is about something bigger than any one
nominee. It is about the integrity of
our Nation’s institutions. It is about
the core functions of our democracy.
We can’t allow partisan politics to eat
away at the checks and balances en-
shrined in our Constitution. We have to
return to common decency and regular
order. Anything less is below the dig-
nity of the American people and the
great Constitution we swore an oath to
faithfully support.
I encourage all of my colleagues to
join me in voting against this tem-
peramentally unfit nominee.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, the Sen-
ate should demand a better nominee
for the Supreme Court. These last 2
weeks have torn our country apart, but
even before these allegations against
Judge Kavanaugh became public, there
was enough in Judge Kavanaugh’s
record to cause me to vote no.
His record is clear. As a Justice, he
will damage women’s rights, civil
rights, the environment, voting rights,
and economic fairness. He will also
damage Native Hawaiian self-deter-
mination.
Let’s start with Native Hawaiian. In
a Wall Street Journal op-ed, he wrote
that Native Hawaiians didn’t deserve
protections as indigenous people. He
wrote an amicus brief in the case Rice
v. Cayetano, arguing that Hawaii vio-
lated the Constitution by permitting
only Native Hawaiians to vote in their
elections for the Office of Hawaiian Af-
fairs—the agency charged with work-
ing to advocate for the Native Hawai-
ian community.
These views come from a lack of
knowledge of the history of Native Ha-
waiians, as well as Federal law and
policies related to U.S. indigenous peo-
ple.
Based on nothing at all, he thinks in-
digenous people are just another race.
In his words, ‘‘Hawaii’s naked racial
spoils system . . . makes remedial set-
asides and hiring and admissions pref-
erences look almost trivial by compari-
son.’’
He also said: ‘‘[I]f Hawaii is per-
mitted to offer extraordinary privi-
leges to residents on the basis of race
or ethnic heritage, so will every other
state.’’
This is wrong on policy. This is
wrong on the law. This is wrong his-
torically, but it is also important to
recognize the tone here. ‘‘Remedial set-
asides,’’ ‘‘racial spoils’’—this is not
someone who understands the plight of
indigenous people and the history of
our country as it relates to indigenous
people. These views have serious con-
sequences for Alaska Natives and also
for American Indians.
The Federal Government’s protec-
tions for indigenous people are built on
tenets of the Constitution, Federal
statutes, legal precedent, and congres-
sional actions. They exist against the
backdrop of U.S. injustice against in-
digenous American Indian, Alaska Na-
tive, and Native Hawaiian commu-
nities. Judge Kavanaugh’s misinformed
views on the status of indigenous peo-
ple are alarming.
His views on women are also alarm-
ing. There is no doubt in my mind that
Judge Kavanaugh will undermine re-
productive rights. He knows better
than to say in public that he is going
to vote to overturn Roe v. Wade. That
is not what they do. The Federalist So-
ciety trains these people really well to
not say what they are going to do.
There is a reason everybody who wants
to ban abortion is so enthusiastic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.005 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6646 October 5, 2018
about this judge. They are not dumb.
They understand his views, and they
understand the one thing you can’t say
is, yes, I will vote to overturn Roe.
Here is an email from his days in the
Bush administration—which, by the
way, the Republicans tried to hide
from the public. He said: ‘‘I am not
sure all legal scholars refer to Roe as
the settled law of the land at the Su-
preme Court level since the Court can
always overrule its precedent, and
three current Justices on the Court
would do so.’’ This is exactly why the
Senate deserves to know if Judge
Kavanaugh would overrule this prece-
dent. I think he will.
Time after time during the hearing,
he evaded answers to that question,
but we already know he embraces re-
strictive limitations on abortion that
would, in practice, deprive women of
their constitutional rights.
Judge Kavanaugh argued in one case
that the Federal Government can and
should override a young woman’s con-
stitutional right to seek an abortion
because she was an immigrant.
This young woman had complied
with the requirements of State law to
make that decision herself. She did not
need the Federal Government to trans-
port her, pay for, or in any way facili-
tate the procedure. She just needed
them to let her out of detention to do
the procedure, but they didn’t want to.
They wanted to pressure her to volun-
tarily deport herself. They put up arti-
ficial barriers to prevent her from exer-
cising her constitutional right. Judge
Kavanaugh endorsed those barriers.
Making a young woman wait weeks to
obtain an abortion for no reason based
on the Constitution, Federal or State
law, or even public policy is an undue
burden. Republicans who worry about
the overstepping of the State should
care about this.
Judge Kavanaugh’s dissent shows his
lack of respect for Roe, but even if he
avoids directly overturning Roe, he
could be green-lighting State or Fed-
eral laws that, in a practical effect,
outlaw abortion.
Judge Kavanaugh would also rip
apart of the ACA, if given a chance. He
ruled to limit access to contraception
under the ACA, and he has made it
clear he thinks the Affordable Care Act
is a ‘‘significant expanse of congres-
sional authority—and thus also a po-
tentially significant infringement of
individual liberty.’’ A significant ex-
pansion of congressional authority and
potentially a significant infringement
of individual liberty—now that sounds
like something a Republican colleague
would say. It is just a view about the
Affordable Care Act which that is to
the extent we are collecting taxes and
establishing some statutory mandates
to try to make sure more people have
healthcare that is affordable, a zero-
sum game. And the more people who
have healthcare, the less liberty either
the rest of us have or maybe even those
people have. I don’t really know how it
works, but that is a view.
It is a view we hear, and I respect my
Republican colleagues for their views. I
believe they are sincere in those views.
That is not normally the kind of thing
you hear from a judge. He has a clear
view about the Affordable Care Act
that isn’t based in jurisprudence; it is
based in his long history as a Repub-
lican operative.
I want to be very clear. A Republican
operative sounds like an epithet. It
sounds like a personal insult. I work
with a lot of operatives. They tend to
be Democrats. Operatives—not all of
them—some of them are pretty cool.
Some of them are honorable. A lot of
them are really effective. It is not a
bad thing to be a political operative.
Someone has to run a campaign. Some-
one has to mobilize voters. It is part of
our democracy, like it or hate it. It is
just that we don’t put them on courts
at all. It is just that we have literally
never put an operative from either po-
litical party on the highest Court in
the land.
In his speeches, Judge Kavanaugh
has left not-so-subtle bread crumbs
about how he would rule on the con-
stitutionality of the individual man-
date, which is really the linchpin of the
ACA. In a lecture at the Heritage
Foundation, he highlighted that the
majority of the Supreme Court agreed
that ‘‘the individual mandate, best
read, could not be sustained as con-
stitutional.’’ To him, the Chief Justice
upheld the ACA only because he tried
too hard to avoid deciding the con-
stitutional issue. The whole speech is
about how Judge Kavanaugh would not
try too hard to avoid the constitu-
tional issue. The risk that he will pro-
vide the vote to strike down the
healthcare law is not a hypothetical.
Now, there were a lot of what most
people in the bar thought were rather
nonserious challenges on the Afford-
able Care Act in various circuit courts
across the country, but I think we have
learned that the Supreme Court has an
interest in the Affordable Care Act,
maybe even a kind of unhealthy obses-
sion with the Affordable Care Act. So
the idea that these seemingly frivolous
lawsuits will not be successful, I think,
is belied by the enthusiasm with which
the Supreme Court wants to take these
circuit court decisions which are get-
ting appealed and rule on them.
Challenges to the ACA could come
before the Supreme Court as early as
this term. So I think it is really impor-
tant for people to remember that. Lis-
ten, we all have our talking points on
both sides of the aisle. I understand
that. It is not a theoretical risk. It is a
real risk that ACA is gutted; that the
individual mandate is gutted; that pro-
tections for people with preexisting
conditions is gutted; that what they
call essential health benefits could fall
away; that the whole architecture of
our healthcare system could be gutted
in this term.
I am also voting no because Judge
Kavanaugh puts corporations above
people—again, not a rhetorical flour-
ish. This is most apparent in his opin-
ions about the environment. I want
you to know about a case which con-
cerned the EPA’s authority to regulate
mercury emissions. The mercury rule
was based on decades of research that
showed devastating health impacts of
mercury on the brain, on the lungs, and
on fetuses. The Obama administration
found that the mercury rule prevented
as many as 11,000 premature deaths by
reducing heart and lung disease.
Let’s be clear. It happened during the
Obama administration, but this isn’t
the EPA; these are professional sci-
entists and researchers. These are civil
servants. They are not like Obama ap-
pointees who have some ax to grind
with a particular chemical. They just
found that this chemical is dangerous
to people. The EPA was directed by law
to study the public health hazards of
emissions from electric utilities, in-
cluding mercury, and to regulate emis-
sions ‘‘if appropriate and necessary.’’
That is the standard, ‘‘if appropriate
and necessary.’’ Judge Kavanaugh
thought the mercury rule was inappro-
priate because it didn’t take into ac-
count the cost to the electric utilities
to implement.
I mean, think about that. You see a
law, and it says ‘‘regulate emissions
where appropriate and necessary,’’ and
then you are a judge and you read that
law and you say: Listen, Agency, you
didn’t think about the corporations
enough. So somehow that is violative
of the law.
To arrive at his decision, he sub-
stituted his own judgment of what is
‘‘appropriate’’ for EPA. ‘‘Appropriate’’
means saving 11,000 lives. For Judge
Kavanaugh, it meant not imposing too
many costs on polluters.
He has and will continue to fight any
attempt by the EPA to keep up with
evolving threats to public health from
polluted air and water and from cli-
mate change. Even though Supreme
Court precedent was clear that green-
house gases fit with the Clean Air Act’s
‘‘capacious definition of air pollut-
ant’’—in other words, greenhouse gases
are a pollutant. Everybody knows that.
It is not a dispute among scientists or
even among regular people who under-
stand that climate change is real, but
Judge Kavanaugh pushed back. When
the majority of the DC Circuit followed
this precedent in another EPA case, he
dissented. The conservative Justices on
the Supreme Court were convinced, and
they voted 5 to 4 to strike down the
EPA’s rule. There will be a lot more of
that when Judge Kavanaugh joins
them.
When Judge Kavanaugh is confirmed,
he will use a far-right doctrine to block
Federal agencies from protecting
Americans’ health and safety. He
wants to do away with something
called Chevron deference, which pre-
vents judges from substituting their
judgment for that of Congress or a Fed-
eral agency.
Here is how it works. When Congress
passes a law, you can’t—especially as it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.006 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6647
October 5, 2018
relates to regulations about pollutants.
We don’t know exactly—we don’t know
all the science. So what we say is, for
instance: Keep the air clean. Keep the
water clean. You, Agency, figure out
what is most important to ban, regu-
late on, and otherwise monitor. So it
delegates that authority to Federal
agencies which have the technical ex-
pertise and knowledge to implement
and enforce the law.
Without that authority, we wouldn’t
have the rules to protect our air and
water from pollution. We wouldn’t be
able to regulate access to new dan-
gerous drugs. We wouldn’t have rules
to protect consumers from unsafe or
predatory products and services be-
cause everything is supposed to be leg-
islated.
If you don’t believe in Chevron def-
erence, then—we are supposed to every
year come up with a new list of chemi-
cals to ban or not ban. What do we
know about that? Seriously, what do
we know about that? Do you think
maybe the lobbyists might be involved
in that process more so than if you let
the administrative agencies do that?
For the life of me, I don’t under-
stand—I mean, I do understand why
people want to get rid of Chevron def-
erence, but I don’t understand the legal
justification for it. The reason they
want to get rid of Chevron deference is
because it makes life safer for big cor-
porations and less safe for the rest of
us.
A vote for Judge Kavanaugh would be
a vote against Chevron deference. It
would allow judges to decide what a
law means without considering
Congress’s intentions or listening to
the Agency.
Perhaps most worrisome for me is
Judge Kavanaugh’s views on Executive
power. The context here is, the Fed-
eralist Society provided a list to Don-
ald Trump and Donald Trump said,
‘‘Looks good to me,’’ as part of his sort
of solidifying the primary, and then
Judge Kavanaugh got added at the end.
I mean, after the initial list was estab-
lished, then one person got added at
the end.
In terms of their jurisprudence, there
is not a big difference between Judge
Kavanaugh and the rest of the people
on the list, but here is the difference:
Judge Kavanaugh has a very unique
view of Executive authority and what a
President is subjected to in terms of
the law.
In his writings and rulings, he has
made clear that he thinks a President
can choose not to follow the law if he
thinks it is unconstitutional. Can you
imagine that a President can just say:
‘‘That law is unconstitutional, so I
refuse to enforce it’’?
Congress couldn’t do anything about
it because it would all go to the Su-
preme Court where Judge Kavanaugh
sits. Do you think Donald Trump
might like that idea? I think Donald
Trump might like that idea.
Judge Kavanaugh thinks the Presi-
dent is literally above the law, not just
in terms of not enforcing statutes
passed by the U.S. Congress; he has
made it clear in speeches and writings
that he does not think a President can
or should be investigated or indicted
for criminal offenses while in office.
He said that maybe Nixon was wrong-
ly decided, referring to the United
States v. Nixon. It is a 1974 decision in
which the Supreme Court unanimously
held that President Nixon had to com-
ply with a subpoena to turn over the
tapes of his conversations in the White
House. He wrote in the Minnesota Law
Review in 2009 that he thinks a Presi-
dent shouldn’t be indicted for breaking
the law. Let me repeat that. He wrote
in the Minnesota Law Review in 2009
that he thinks a sitting President
shouldn’t be indicted for breaking the
law.
Now, near as I can tell—I am not a
lawyer—but near as I can tell, this is
the main difference between Judge
Kavanaugh’s views and the rest of the
people on the Federalist Society list. I
mean, the head of the Federalist Soci-
ety, before Judge Kavanaugh was nom-
inated, was asked: Do you have any fa-
vorites? He said: Anyone on this list
would be great.
It is just weird to me that the Presi-
dent of the United States picked this
guy, a Bush person. It is not normally
his preference to pick a Bush person,
but this person has this really specific
view about how powerful a President
should be, and that is really worri-
some.
He also wrote that there is ‘‘a serious
constitutional question regarding
whether a President can be criminally
indicted and tried while in office.’’ This
is the tip of the iceberg.
Judge Kavanaugh has also asserted
that the President has ‘‘absolute au-
thority’’ to pardon all offenders for any
crime at any time, even before a trial
or a charge; even before he or she is
charged. Does he mean all offenders,
even the President? Judge Kavanaugh
may have refused to answer this ques-
tion at the hearing, but his expansive
view of Executive power speaks for
him.
His view puts the President above the
law, and this is dangerous because
right now Special Counsel Robert
Mueller is in the middle of an inves-
tigation into the President’s campaign.
Instead of following Supreme Court
case law, Judge Kavanaugh may try to
undermine that investigation and stop
attempts to subpoena the President or
to collect evidence.
The context, of course—sometimes
we in the Senate pretend not to know
things we know. There are a lot of
smart people here, but we sometimes
don’t say what is actually going on,
which, as everybody knows, even peo-
ple who are loyal to him—or people
who pretend to be loyal to him but pri-
vately grouse about him—the Presi-
dent demands loyalty to him, not to
the Constitution, not to the country.
The President is a person who demands
personal loyalty. He could have picked
anybody, but he picked Brett
Kavanaugh, the one judge who believes
the President is above the law and
should be left alone.
These issues have been clear since
the nomination, and that is why I
pledged to vote no. Others came to
light last week when the whole country
had the chance to hear from Christine
Blasey Ford and Judge Kavanaugh.
What we saw, I think, was alarming for
a lot of people. Whatever your view on
all of the stuff I just talked about, ac-
tually, we saw behavior that was just
weird. It was kind of manic. It was
angry. It was wild-eyed. It was threat-
ening. I mean, we talk—listen, I was in
the State house of representatives, so I
wasn’t in a position to deal with advice
and consent on State judges, so I
hadn’t dug into what the criteria were
when you are considering a judge.
So when I got to the Senate—I am in
my sixth year—there were a lot of con-
versations about judicial temperament.
You think about qualifications. You
want to make sure the views are not
too extreme. Then you think about
temperament. This thing about tem-
perament is being totally ignored by
the majority because if you care at all
about temperament, if you care at all
about the idea of equal justice for all,
if you care—and we are so close to the
U.S. Supreme Court physically right
now. If you care about that magnifi-
cent building and the idea that any-
body going before that highest Court in
the land is going to get a fair shake, it
is just vanishingly unlikely that if you
are with the National Resource Defense
Council or NARO or Planned Parent-
hood or MoveOn, or whoever he views
as part of this attempt to smear him,
they are going to court and they are
going to be a litigant and they are
going to be looking at Judge
Kavanaugh saying: Oh, yes, he is unde-
cided.
This is the important thing: Some
people will argue that he is going to be
an evenhanded jurist, that he sort of
lost his cool, but he cleaned it up in
this most recent Wall Street Journal
editorial. Maybe. I don’t think so. I
think it is implausible. The point is, he
can’t even appear—you are not sup-
posed to even appear to be anything
less than impartial, and he ripped the
mask off.
Again, he is a Republican. That is
fine. I get along with Republicans—not
all of them, but I get along with Re-
publicans—and he can have all of those
views. It is just that once you start ar-
ticulating really partisan views, espe-
cially in the context of a nomination
process, then the mask is off, and you
don’t belong on the Court. You have to
display the proper temperament on and
off the Bench at all times. ‘‘What that
means is in dealings with one’s col-
leagues on the bench, having an open
mind, being respectful of a colleague’s
views, being respectful of the lawyers
who come before the court and not
treating them disrespectfully, but to
have proper respect for the lawyers on
the court.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.007 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6648 October 5, 2018
I am quoting Judge Kavanaugh, and I
did not see that Judge Kavanaugh last
week.
I just want to make one minor point
about that. Whatever we think of that
Wall Street Journal editorial, besides
the fact that there was no actual apol-
ogy, it wasn’t like a spur-of-the-mo-
ment thing where he kind of lost it and
said a few things he didn’t mean to say.
He wrote the speech the day before.
That speech was what he wanted to
say. That is what he intended to say.
So it is not like the passion—I have
said lots of things I wish I didn’t say,
but generally when I write them down,
I can’t fairly characterize that as a
mistake. Maybe I made a factual error.
Maybe I stumble. Maybe I shouldn’t
have said one paragraph.
That whole thing was a mess. That
whole thing was an emotional mess.
That actually should have been dis-
qualifying, and that should have been
the moment where Members of the Re-
publican Party just went over and said:
Listen, we have 18 conservative judges.
Any of them could get confirmed. This
guy is not right for the Bench. This
guy is going to be bad for the institu-
tion of the Court.
I want to talk a little bit about the
Federalist Society, an organization
with a mission to alter the legal land-
scape of the United States. For dec-
ades, the Federalist Society has
worked to remake the Federal judici-
ary with the view of power of corpora-
tions, Executive authority, social con-
servatism, and the protection of privi-
lege that is out of the legal main-
stream. As Amanda Hollis-Brusky, a
professor of politics at Pomona College
and the author of ‘‘Ideas with Con-
sequences,’’ a study of the Federalist
Society, said: ‘‘The idea was to train,
credential, and socialize a generation
of alternative elites.’’
This is because we have Republican
Presidents who would nominate and
get confirmed Justices that were Re-
publican but not as reliably conserv-
ative as they wanted. So the Federalist
Society, formed for the purpose of say-
ing, you know, we are not going to get
fooled again. We want our stuff. We
want our outcomes. We don’t want you
to actually fairly consider the law and
the Constitution and just call balls and
strikes and all that. That is what they
say. They set up this apparatus to do
the opposite; to be very outcome-ori-
ented and to be very conservative.
That is what the Federalist Society
has done.
This nomination is the latest success
story of this ambitious enterprise, and
his confirmation will, unfortunately,
entrench these judicial views in the Su-
preme Court for decades to come.
While his views on some issues are
known, the Senate and the American
people still don’t have a full picture of
who he is, and that is because at every
turn there has been a concerted effort
to hide the documents.
Now, this feels like 10 weeks ago, but
before the last scandal, what I thought
was terribly scandalous was that this
man had been in public life, he worked
for the government, and so there are
tons of records of that, right? You can
FOIA it. Most of it is archived because
he worked in the White House. In the
end, the committee didn’t receive 95
percent of the documents related to his
public life.
Now, we are not talking about a fish-
ing expedition. We are talking about
when he worked in the White House,
where are the records of that? We
didn’t get to see any of it. It was, in my
view, a misuse of the process in the Ju-
diciary Committee related to what is
considered committee confidential.
In the past, committee confidential
essentially means anything that is per-
sonally sensitive or anything that is ei-
ther secret or top secret. Committee
confidential is a narrow thing, but
what they decided to do is say 95 per-
cent of all the records we just don’t get
to see. So the U.S. Senate and the pub-
lic doesn’t get to review 95 percent of
the records related to Judge
Kavanaugh’s public service.
These are the reasons I find it hard
to believe Judge Kavanaugh is going to
have a successful vote tomorrow; and I
do understand he will have a successful
vote. I guess it is today because we are
3 in the morning.
Judge Kavanaugh’s judicial record,
his temperament, his views on Execu-
tive power should be enough to scare
away most Members of this body.
This is a dark day for the Senate, but
more important than that—I worry
very much about this institution. I
worry about the way we have con-
ducted ourselves. I worry about the
bastardization of this process. I worry
about our ability to come back to-
gether. I worry about, the Senate’s tra-
ditional role, when it is working, is to
calm everybody down, is to deal with
stuff that is hard. It seems to me that
at every stage, instead of being the
cooling saucer, instead of being a place
where we can deal with tough issues,
we serve to inflame the passions of
folks on both sides, to cause pain
across the country, and to not get to
the truth. More important than the in-
stitutional aspect, it is a dark day for
vulnerable people, women in par-
ticular, people of color, indigenous peo-
ples, people with preexisting condi-
tions, people who struggle economi-
cally, union members.
The country is feeling torn apart,
and the Senate has traditionally
played a role in calming tensions down,
moving methodically, being fair, and
this process is not that. We need an-
other nominee.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I have
a lot of concerns about the possibility
of Brett Kavanaugh serving on the Su-
preme Court. They are concerns that
come from many different directions,
but let’s start with the precedent that
this body has not reviewed his full
record. We haven’t taken any look at
all at the 3 years he was Staff Sec-
retary to President Bush because the
President’s team intervened and asked
us not to. And a couple Members of
this body collaborated with the White
House to deny everybody else here the
possibility of looking at his record.
The thing is that each and every one
of us has a responsibility to review the
record. This exceptional situation in
which a few Members have made it im-
possible for anyone in the body to ful-
fill their constitutional responsibility
is an extraordinary abuse of power in
this body.
Then we have the President of the
United States reaching out in other
ways—in ways we have never seen be-
fore—and putting the stamp of Presi-
dential privilege on some 100,000 docu-
ments. These were documents from the
time that Brett Kavanaugh served as a
White House Counsel. We received a
few documents, and there were a lot of
troubling things in those documents,
but 100,000 documents were censored by
the President of the United States.
I will just remind my colleagues that
the President is not supposed to inter-
fere with the work of the Senate in the
confirmation process. It is called the
separation of powers. Maybe some of
you would like to pull out your Con-
stitution and study it for a moment
and realize that the President nomi-
nates but doesn’t get to decide what
this body reviews. Yet that stamp of
Presidential power, untested, has done
so for, as far as we can tell, the first
time in U.S. history.
Then we have the fact that he asked
the same individual whom he had given
the stamp of Presidential power to pro-
ceed to make some 140,000 documents
confidential so the public couldn’t see
them. Well, that, too, was untested.
That, too, was an original strategy.
That, too, was a situation of mini-
mizing the conversation that experts
could have of what was in those
records.
Of those three phases, I think the one
that bothers me the most is the second
one—the use of the stamp of Presi-
dential privilege on 100,000 documents.
When Presidential privilege—otherwise
known as Executive privilege—was
used in the past, a document was
looked at and it was determined, what
constitutional test does this meet for
special treatment? One would think
that since these were documents from
the Bush administration, the Trump
administration couldn’t make any of
the arguments that normally are made
about compromising conversations in
the White House, but no explanation
was given. This was just straight-out
censorship across the board.
I challenged that censorship, and the
hearing that was supposed to take
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.009 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6649
October 5, 2018
place unfortunately won’t take place
because of this rush to complete the
confirmation before the Senate can get
ahold of those documents, before that
hearing can occur.
Why the rush to cooperate with the
White House to prevent this body from
seeing those 100,000 pages that were
censored by the White House? What is
the President hiding? Is it Brett
Kavanaugh’s involvement in the policy
of torture? Is it Brett Kavanaugh’s in-
volvement in holding the documents
stolen from Senate Democrats, because
we know he received them? Is it his in-
volvement in other nominations where
he said he wasn’t very involved? What
is in those 100,000 documents that the
White House was desperate that this
body not review? That is certainly
troubling. No nomination should go
forward without a review by this body
of a nominee’s records, certainly not
for a lifetime appointment and cer-
tainly not for the Supreme Court.
Then there is concern over the tem-
perament of the individual. Out of the
hundreds of millions of Americans
across this land, certainly there are at
least nine who have the temperament
to serve. No need to turn to someone
who is belligerent and condescending.
No need to turn to someone who is
angry and unstable. But what did we
see? That is exactly what we saw when
we heard him testify before the Senate
Judiciary Committee.
He said things like: ‘‘Some of you
were lying in wait and had it ready,’’
although he said it in an angrier tone
than that.
He said: ‘‘This confirmation has be-
come a national disgrace.’’ Well, I
don’t actually argue with that because
it is a disgrace because of the com-
promises of fairness that have occurred
in this process toward the women who
came forward.
When he was asked by Senator KLO-
BUCHAR if he has ever been blackout
drunk, he responded: ‘‘I don’t know.
Have you?’’ Well, interesting response.
Did he respond ‘‘I don’t know’’ because
he can’t remember because he blacked
out? Was that his point?
Then we saw the partisan rhetoric: a
frenzy on the left to come up with
something, anything, to block my con-
firmation. Angry and partisan, all in
one moment.
Then he went on to say much more
about things being calculated and or-
chestrated, about things being a polit-
ical hit, fueled with pent-up anger
about President Trump. He talked
about fear unfairly stoked. He talked
about revenge on behalf of the Clin-
tons.
He threatened the Senate. He said:
‘‘As we all know, what goes around
comes around.’’
This man with these quotes is quali-
fied to serve on the special body known
as the Supreme Court of the United
States? I don’t think so.
He talked about the fact that he
didn’t drink too much and he didn’t be-
come belligerent. Yet we saw a lot of
belligerence when he came before the
body. This is called not having judicial
temperament. That performance of in-
temperate behavior led to 2,400 law pro-
fessors noting that it was improper, in-
appropriate, simply wrong, that this
man should serve. They wrote a letter
October 3rd: ‘‘The Senate should not
confirm Kavanaugh.’’ The letter was
presented to us the following day. They
said this:
Judicial temperament is one of the most
important qualities of a judge. As the Con-
gressional Research Service explains, a judge
requires ‘‘a personality that is evenhanded,
unbiased, impartial, courteous, yet firm, and
dedicated to a process, not a result.’’
The concern for judicial tempera-
ment dates back to our founding. In
Federalist 78, titled ‘‘Judges as Guard-
ians of the Constitution,’’ Alexander
Hamilton expressed the need for the in-
tegrity and moderation of the judici-
ary.
The letter continues:
We are law professors who teach, research,
and write about the judicial institutions of
this country. Many of us appear in State and
Federal court and our work means that we
will continue to do so, including before the
United States Supreme Court. We regret
that we feel compelled to write to you, our
Senators, to provide our views that at the
Senate hearings on September 27, Judge
Brett Kavanaugh displayed a lack of judicial
temperament that would be disqualifying for
any court, and certainly for elevation to the
highest court of this land.
They continued based on their back-
ground—2,400 law professors from
across the country—saying:
The question at issue was, of course, pain-
ful for anyone. But Judge Kavanaugh exhib-
ited a lack of commitment to judicious in-
quiry. Instead of being open to the necessary
search for accuracy, Judge Kavanaugh was
repeatedly aggressive with questioners. Even
in his prepared remarks, Judge Kavanaugh
described the hearing as partisan, referring
to it as ‘‘a calculated and orchestrated polit-
ical hit’’ rather than acknowledging the need
for the Senate, faced with new information,
to try to understand what had transpired.
Instead of trying to sort out with reason
and care the allegations that were raised to
him, Judge Kavanaugh responded in an in-
temperate, inflammatory, and partial man-
ner, and he interrupted and at times was dis-
courteous to Senators.
As you know, under two statutes governing
bias and recusal, judges must step aside if
they are at risk of being perceived as or of
being unfair. As Congress has previously put
it, a judge or justice ‘‘shall disqualify him-
self in any proceeding in which his impar-
tiality might reasonably be questioned.’’
These statutes are part of a myriad of legal
commitments to the impartiality of the judi-
ciary, which is a cornerstone of the courts.
We have differing views about the other
qualifications of Judge Kavanaugh, but we
are united as professors of law and scholars
of judicial institutions in believing that he
did not display the impartiality and judicial
temperament requisite to sit on the highest
court of the land.
Signed, with their respective institu-
tional affiliations, 2,400 law professors,
saying that this man is not suited to
serve.
Another concern not mentioned in
that letter was his fidelity to the
truth—misrepresentations, inaccura-
cies, and straight-out whoppers.
Some of our colleagues, like the sen-
ior Senator from South Carolina, said:
I have argued to you that when you
found that a judge was a perjurer, you
couldn’t in good conscience send him
back into the courtroom because ev-
erybody who came in that courtroom
thereafter would have a real serious
doubt—a real serious doubt over
whether the truth was being told.
Brett Kavanaugh said that all wit-
nesses to his alleged assault of Dr.
Ford refuted her claim or said it didn’t
happen. What is the truth? Only one
person said it didn’t happen: Brett
Kavanaugh. All of those other folks he
said refuted it—nobody refuted it. They
said they couldn’t remember, but they
didn’t refute it. And one said that
while she couldn’t remember, she be-
lieved Dr. Ford. So Brett Kavanaugh,
in the most generous capacity, simply
doesn’t have the ability to keep the
facts straight on a pretty straight-
forward thing—big difference between
refuting and not remembering—or he
deliberately misrepresented the facts,
in which case he lied.
Brett Kavanaugh said he first heard
of the Ramirez allegations in the pe-
riod since The New Yorker published
the story, but we have had multiple re-
ports that Brett Kavanaugh and his
team were working to discredit Rami-
rez before The New Yorker story. Why
did he say that he learned about it
after, when he was working to discredit
it before? Did he think this was clever,
that he could kind of say: Well, I heard
about the full story in The New Yorker
after The New Yorker article was pub-
lished. Was that what he was trying to
imply—like maybe I can slip by on that
one—because he didn’t want people to
know that he knew about it early and
had worked to discredit her? Another
whopper from Brett Kavanaugh.
Brett Kavanaugh said he did not
travel in the same social circles as Dr.
Ford, who went to Holton-Arms, but
what was the truth? His classmates
said they routinely socialized with the
Holton-Arms girls. So much for that
statement.
Brett Kavanaugh said he categori-
cally did not receive documents stolen
from Democratic Senators and their
staffs by Manny Miranda in the early
2000s, but in one of those documents
that didn’t get censored, that slipped
its way through to the Senate, what
did we find out? It shows that he clear-
ly received the stolen documents—an-
other lie from Brett Kavanaugh.
Brett Kavanaugh said that Judge
Pickering’s nomination was not one he
primarily handled. Well, let’s just say
that this is less than the full truth.
Maybe if you emphasize the word ‘‘pri-
marily,’’ you find some shred of accu-
racy, but it is certainly not a full and
appropriate presentation because it
turns out that he was involved in a
number of critical aspects of the Pick-
ering nomination.
Brett Kavanaugh said he did not see
or hear anything about President
Bush’s warrantless wiretapping pro-
gram before it was publicly reported,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.011 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6650 October 5, 2018
but in some of those other documents
that slipped through, we find out that
he did know about them, and he
emailed John Yoo about the
warrantless wiretapping long before
the program became public.
Brett Kavanaugh said the Bush ad-
ministration did not consider ideology
when selecting or vetting judges, but
the truth is that the documents show
that they did consider ideology.
Why did this man, Brett Kavanaugh,
feel the need to misrepresent the truth
time after time after time?
He implied that when it came to
drinking, he didn’t drink excessively
and he did not get aggressive. Yet we
have person after person after person
saying that is exactly what happened.
He said the phrase ‘‘Renate Alum-
nus’’ in his yearbook was ‘‘clumsily in-
tended to show affection.’’ Let me re-
peat that: ‘‘clumsily intended to show
affection.’’ And he continued: ‘‘and
that she was one of us.’’ Isn’t it nice
that he and his colleagues got together
to pick out this one young lady and
show in their yearbooks that they had
affection for her, when everyone else
involved said that is not what it was
all about at all? It was about this
group of men bragging about sexual
conquests. It may not have actually oc-
curred, but they were laughing over
the prospect of disgracing this indi-
vidual. What kind of a warped char-
acter goes out of his way to either brag
about sexual conquests or to imply—
imply—a character that she did not
have, to tear her down? But that is
Brett Kavanaugh.
He went on to tell some real whop-
pers—that folks in his circle say the
term ‘‘ralphing’’ refers to throwing up
when drinking. He said: No, it refers to
a sensitive stomach. They are all
things that he had written.
‘‘Boofing,’’ what was that all about?
He said that has to do with flatulence,
but everyone around him says: No, that
was a crude sexual activity that he was
describing. That is what that word
means. I will not give the details of it.
He said ‘‘devil’s triangle’’ is a drink-
ing game, when everyone else says: No,
it wasn’t a drinking game; it has an-
other sexual connotation.
So he couldn’t bring himself to be
honest and say: I don’t feel comfortable
giving the definition of those in a pub-
lic hearing because I am such a nice,
sweet guy. But instead, he lied. Lying
came so easy—lie after lie after lie. As
my colleague from South Carolina
said: When a person lies once, you
don’t trust them after that. How would
anyone, after breaking the truth, be
believed in the future?
So we have the fact that his char-
acter is one of hurting and attacking
others, of lying even to the U.S. Sen-
ate. Some 2,400 law professors note
that his temperament, his animosity,
and his partisanship make him un-
qualified to serve on the Court.
So what is this all about? Why are
my colleagues across the aisle so in-
tent on getting him confirmed? It has
to do with his judicial philosophy and
taking no risk that this seat is not
filled with this judicial philosophy—
this philosophy for the powerful over
the people.
There have been some interesting as-
pects of this philosophy. One is that he
believes that the President is above
and beyond the law and should not or
cannot be indicted or investigated
while he is in office.
The Court may well have to make
some rulings on how President Trump
conducts himself. President Trump
might just fire the special prosecutor.
Is that within his power? The Court
may have to decide.
The President may decide to pardon
himself—something never done in U.S.
history—given all the investigations
into egregious conduct. Why did the
President pick this individual, who has
the most expansive view of Presi-
dential power, to serve on the Court?
Maybe he is trying to write himself a
‘‘get out of jail free’’ card. But if you
can’t find in the Constitution that the
President is above and beyond the
law—and I dare you to try; I dare any-
one in this Chamber to find that in the
Constitution, because it is not there—
why are we putting a man on the Court
who thinks it is, who is so comfortable
twisting and torturing the words on
the page to reach a predesired conclu-
sion?
Yes, he was handpicked by the Fed-
eralist Society after Trump promised
to appoint anti-Roe v. Wade judges who
would strip away the constitutional
right to a full range of reproductive
services. It bothers me a lot—the idea
of a judge who believes the government
should be in the exam room, between a
woman and her doctor. The govern-
ment does not belong in an exam room,
between a woman and her doctor on
difficult medical life issues.
But in every decision—or virtually
every decision—Kavanaugh finds a way
to twist the circumstances in order to
find for the powerful over the people.
That is what this rush to jam this per-
son onto the Court is. Does he believe
the Court should take on gerry-
mandering, which is a huge blight on
equal representation of the people?
There is no sign that he does. We cur-
rently have a Court where the majority
has not wanted to take on those issues,
despite the fact they are the ones who
are supposed to maintain the integrity
of the Constitution.
Do we have any sign that he is upset
or concerned about the tearing down of
the Voting Rights Act, which this
Chamber passed and the House passed
and was law for decades but was torn
down by the court? Rather than letting
this Chamber or the House together de-
cide to adjust that law, they decided to
tear it down, saying: We don’t have to
worry about this anymore.
Is there any sign that Judge
Kavanaugh cares about the desecration
of the opportunity of citizens to vote in
this country? No. An offense against
the Constitution, yes. His concern,
none.
What about the dark money that is
the consequence of a huge concentra-
tion of wealth and influence—a huge
concentration of influence because the
Supreme Court opened the door with
the case Citizens United? I found it
kind of bizarrely humorous to hear col-
leagues across the aisle complaining
about dark money, because they have
been absolutely arguing that dark
money should be permitted. When we
had the idea of not having dark money
and shining a light on it—it was called
the DISCLOSE Act—every single Re-
publican in this Chamber voted against
it. Every single one voted against sun-
light. Why is that? The Koch brothers
essentially are the puppet masters of
this Chamber. They invested hundreds
of millions of dollars in dark money,
thanks to Citizens United, in making
sure that they had control of this
Chamber. Did we hear Judge
Kavanaugh have any interest in clean-
ing up this mess?
Thomas Jefferson was speaking to
the core architecture of our Constitu-
tion, and he said that the mother prin-
ciple—he referred to it as the ‘‘mother
principle’’—was that there would be an
equal voice among the citizens. Now,
we know it was not the case that ev-
eryone had an equal voice. Commu-
nities of color did not have an equal
voice and women did not have an equal
voice, but what Jefferson was speaking
to was the distribution of power across
the electorate. He said only then will
you have laws that reflect the will of
the people.
But Citizens United is the opposite of
that. It concentrates power. If you
have an individual like the Koch broth-
ers who can put $100 million into a
campaign and you have an ordinary
person who can put $100 into a cam-
paign, then you are granting the Koch
brothers 1 million times the influence.
It is the exact opposite of Jefferson’s
‘‘equal voice’’ principle.
Does Kavanaugh have the slightest
understanding that the construction of
the Constitution was to avoid the pow-
erful—running the government by and
for the powerful? The Constitution was
a response to that very problem in Eu-
rope. There is no sign of that, no inter-
est in that—in fact, quite the opposite.
He has bragged about being the most
pure on the First Amendment. What
does that mean? It means that he loves
the weaponization of the First Amend-
ment, twisted as an instrument to give
the powerful victories over the people
time and again—decisions against the
environment, decisions against work-
ers, decisions against consumers, deci-
sions against reproductive rights. That
is the rush to put this man, unqualified
in every possible way, to serve on the
Supreme Court—not having the tem-
perament, not having the integrity.
That is the rush—to secure and ensure
that Jefferson’s concept of equal voice
is destroyed.
The most troubling is his conduct to-
ward women. The fact that he collabo-
rated with other boys to damage the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.012 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6651
October 5, 2018
integrity of a young woman was trou-
bling. Troubling beyond troubling is
the story of his assault on Dr. Ford,
but you might say: Wait. We don’t have
any corroborating information about
that.
But Dr. Ford asked for her corrobo-
rating witnesses to come before the
Senate Judiciary Committee, and how
many of those were allowed to come
before the committee? None. None.
Zero. The committee was determined
to make it just ‘‘he said and she said,’’
without any other information. That is
treating an individual unfairly—abso-
lutely unfairly—to cherry pick infor-
mation and only to allow it to support
one side of the argument and to deny
her the ability to bring her corrobo-
rating people before the Judiciary
Committee. Even in 1991, that was not
done with Anita Hill. This body treated
Dr. Ford worse.
Then the sham of the reopened FBI
investigation, which was only opened
because one courageous colleague from
Arizona said: I am not going forward
unless we really examine these situa-
tions that involved his assault on
women. But the decision on how to
conduct that FBI investigation wasn’t
up to this Chamber. It was up to the
President, and the President does a
scoping document and tells the FBI
whom to talk to. Apparently, he con-
sulted with the leadership, it is re-
ported—the Republican leadership of
this Chamber—on whom to let the FBI
consult with, and the result was not to
consult or talk to or interview a single
one of those eight people that Dr. Ford
asked to be interviewed.
It would take some time, I guess, to
know exactly who said what to whom.
It was the President’s decision. So the
responsibility rests there. But in the
interest of fairness, was there not one
Member of this body in that conversa-
tion who could speak up and say: We
want the facts not a whitewash. We
want the facts.
Apparently, no one did. No one in-
sisted on that. They said: No, we will
go forward, even if we hide all of the
facts.
Then, there was Debbie Ramirez, who
shared her story of being assaulted, her
story from the college dorm. In that
case, she said there were 20 people that
the FBI should talk to. Well, she
wasn’t invited to appear by the Judici-
ary Committee at all, and none of her
20 individuals whom she suggested
should be talked to were invited. So
she got no hearing—complete exclu-
sion. Yet many Members of this Cham-
ber attacked her. Do you think that is
fair, attacking a person but not letting
her come before this Chamber to give
her story? Do you think that is fair? It
is not fair.
Then we have the FBI receive in-
structions from the White House, after
consultation with the Republican lead-
ership, and the result is they didn’t
talk to one of her corroborating wit-
nesses—not one. Why, in this day and
age, where we have been in the middle
of a ‘‘me too’’ conversation, can indi-
viduals in this Chamber on the right
side of the aisle take such joy in being
so unfair to a woman coming forward
to share a story? It is even worse be-
cause each one knew, if they read the
newspapers, that there was a lot of cor-
roborating information.
Kenneth Appold was in the same
suite in the dorm. He lived in the same
suite—two bedrooms, sharing a com-
mon space—and he heard the story. He
independently recalled many of the
same details that Ramirez shared, in-
cluding that a male student had en-
couraged Kavanaugh as he exposed
himself. The classmate recalled that
the party took place in a common
room on the first floor.
I have known this all along, he said.
It has been on my mind all these years
when his name came up. It was a big
deal.
How come his voice was not allowed
to come before the Senate? Why did the
FBI not talk to him and put it into the
report? I will tell you why. It was so
Senators could go down and review the
report and say, oh, there is no new in-
formation.
Of course, there is no new informa-
tion. It is because the President’s team
reportedly asked the Republicans’ lead-
ership what they wanted done, and ap-
parently it didn’t want any of the peo-
ple who had corroborating information
to be talked to or reported on. That is
a betrayal of justice. That is a com-
plete corruption of justice.
Mr. Appold is a professor now at
Princeton Theological Seminary. He is
deeply respected.
He said: ‘‘It had been on my mind all
of these years when his name,’’ refer-
ring to Kavanaugh, ‘‘came up. It was a
big deal.’’ The story stayed with him,
he said, ‘‘because it was disturbing and
seemed outside the bounds of accept-
able behavior even during heavy drink-
ing at parties on campus.’’ He said he
had been shocked but not necessarily
surprised because the social group to
which Kavanaugh belonged often drank
to excess. He recalled that Brett
Kavanaugh was relatively shy until he
drank, at which point he could become
aggressive and even belligerent.
Now, this individual, Kenneth, may
be quick to judge, and one may say,
well, he just invented this memory, ex-
cept here is the problem—he shared it
with his roommate from his first year
in graduate school. He told what had
happened that year, so he has a lot of
credibility. He is a professor at a theo-
logical seminary. He lived in the same
suite. He heard the story about it
shortly after it happened. It disturbed
him so much that he shared it with his
roommate from his first year in grad-
uate school. That is a pretty persuasive
substantiation of Debbie Ramirez’s
story.
There was another classmate, Rich-
ard Oh, an emergency room doctor in
California. Soon after the party, he re-
called overhearing a female student
tearfully recount to another student an
incident at the party involving a gag
with—well, you know the story—fol-
lowed by a male student exposing him-
self. Was Richard Oh invited to come
before the Senate and tell his story?
No, he was not—another transgression
of justice. Did the FBI talk to him? No,
because it had instructions not to talk
to these individuals who had corrobo-
rating information.
This is situation in which, when a
woman comes forward to share her
story, she is treated with disdain by
this institution. That is why these
women didn’t want to come forward.
They thought they were mistreated.
Unfortunately, it turned out to be
right, and everyone supporting and
voting for Kavanaugh shares the shame
of the mistreatment of Dr. Ford and
the mistreatment of Debbie Ramirez.
Across this land, it has caused
women to relive the experiences they
have gone through, with many of them
having written to our offices. I encour-
age every Senator to read every one of
the letters they are getting before vot-
ing late this afternoon on the question
of whether Kavanaugh should serve on
the Court. I read five letters earlier,
but I have received a lot of letters. I
am going to read more of them now.
This individual writes:
Please do what you can to block the
Kavanaugh vote to the Supreme Court. I was
also a victim of sexual assault when I was in
graduate school in the early 1970s. I never
pursued that due to fear of consequences and
feeling that this was my fault.
‘‘This has to stop,’’ she concludes the
letter.
Do you think that she got any en-
couragement from the completely un-
just way this body treated these two
women? No. It is exactly the classic
setup and rigged response with which,
so often, women have met when they
have had the courage to come forward
with their stories.
Another woman wrote:
I cried all the way to work, listening to Dr.
Christine.
She is referring to Christine Blasey
Ford.
If you can do anything as my Senator, do
everything you can to change the course of
our national Court decision. There isn’t
much more I can say as a mom, as a profes-
sional, as a sexual assault victim who has
never come forward. Please.
I appreciate her writing to me, and I
share her concern and the belief that
we should change the course we seem
to be on at the moment because there
is nothing like confirming this man
without fairly examining the women
who have been courageous enough to
come forward. It is more insulting to
all of these women who have gone
through the experiences of being as-
saulted.
Another Oregonian wrote to me:
I am a survivor of sexual abuse. I was as-
saulted as a child by someone my family
trusted, then again by a stranger when I was
in college. In both instances, I remember the
sinking feeling I had afterward—the feeling
that even if I spoke up, I wouldn’t be be-
lieved. I have long felt trapped inside my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.014 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6652 October 5, 2018
own trauma, but over the past couple weeks,
I have drawn such strength from the sister-
hood of survivors who have shown up, pro-
tested, and shouted out their own survivor
stories. I have drawn strength from Dr.
Christine Blasey Ford’s testimony. I know
that because she stepped forward, other sur-
vivors will feel brave enough to speak up too.
There is power and comfort when women
come together and speak our truth before
the world.
I say to Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, I
am sorry you were treated in this hor-
rific manner by the Judiciary Com-
mittee of the U.S. Senate. I am sorry
you were treated so unfairly that not a
single one of your corroborating wit-
nesses was pulled before the com-
mittee. I feel terrible that those at the
FBI did not talk to any of the people
you asked them to talk to. It was a
rigged system. You were set up. You
were betrayed by the leadership of this
body, but your courageous action in
coming forth was not without results.
This woman, like thousands of oth-
ers, is looking to you and saying thank
you—thank you for the courage you
had to share. Even though you were
afraid that you would be treated un-
fairly, you came forward anyway, and
that gives others courage to share
their stories. Unfortunately, your
fears, Dr. Ford, were justified. May it
never be again the case. The only right
thing now is for us not to send Brett
Kavanaugh to the Court.
There was an article that appeared in
an Oregon newspaper, and I am going
to read the story but, like the news-
paper, not share her name.
The newspaper story starts out this
way:
The event happened 75 years ago when
‘‘Dorothy’’—[not her real name]—watched
the testimonies of Christine Blasey Ford and
Brett Kavanaugh on television, on Thursday,
during Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court con-
firmation hearings. The memories came
flooding back, and for the first time, she felt
she must tell her story—a story she never
told her mother, a story she didn’t tell her
husband either.
Dorothy’s story is similar to the
story Blasey told, on Thursday, in tes-
timony that was part of the confirma-
tion hearings for Supreme Court Jus-
tice Nominee Kavanaugh. Blasey ac-
cused Kavanaugh of attempting to rape
her when they were both at a house
party with a group of high school stu-
dents. Kavanaugh denied the accusa-
tions, which are now the subject of an
FBI investigation.
Dorothy, now 91, was a student at
Reedsport High School in the 1940s. One day,
she was at a friend’s house where several
kids her age were gathered. She said she was
carried into a bedroom by a popular football
player, and before she knew what was hap-
pening, she found herself pinned to a bed, un-
derneath the boy, who was struggling to get
her pants off. He was both a ‘‘big man’’ on
campus and ‘‘just big.’’ She was 85 pounds.
In some ways, Dorothy’s story is dif-
ferent from Blasey’s in that she was
carried and not pushed into the room.
There was no one in the room except
her and her attacker. Dorothy said she
was able to push the boy enough that
he hit his head on the bed’s headboard,
and with his weight off of her, she was
able to yell for help, and her friend and
her friend’s brother rushed in and res-
cued her.
Dorothy doesn’t want The News-Re-
view to use her real name, so she is
being referred to by a name that was
given to many girls in the year she was
born. She still has difficulty dealing
with what happened to her in high
school. For most of her life, she has re-
fused to think about it. She has had
plenty else to think about. She has
raised kids, been widowed, remarried,
widowed again, but it is still with her.
She said:
You try to bury all of that, and you do for
a long time. Then something like this news
comes up, and it brings it all back.
Dorothy started off talking about
sexual harassment. It was later when
she felt able to call what had happened
to her by a more legally accurate
name—attempted rape. Dorothy said
she was naive when she was 16:
I was pretty shy and naive and unsure of
myself, I guess. I don’t know if feeling ‘‘infe-
rior’’ is the right word. I made good grades,
and I worked in the school office, but I was
a country kid.
She couldn’t talk to her mother
about sex.
If I tried to ask her anything about sex,
she said, ‘‘That is dirty. We don’t talk about
that.’’ She had a general idea, enough to un-
derstand what her attacker was after. She
didn’t know if he and other boys were drink-
ing, but she was not. The kids had been danc-
ing before it happened. It never occurred to
her to report the incident. That just wasn’t
done in those days, and she was ashamed—
embarrassed—as if the whole incident were
her fault.
The story got around at school, though,
and the other kids were not sympathetic.
You look, and people are kind of giggling as
you walk by. They had heard about it.
Now she wonders if the same boy
went after other girls.
It is part of life, and it happens a lot more
than people realize. It probably happened to
other girls in the same school, she said.
Many years after the event, Dorothy said she
saw her attacker. He was in a wheelchair,
and she couldn’t help thinking, ‘‘Great. He
got what he deserved.’’
Even though 75 years have passed,
she has never forgotten what he did.
I can still shut my eyes and see that guy
packing me over his shoulder and throwing
me on the bed and jumping on top of me.
Watching Thursday’s hearings made
Dorothy furious. She believed Blasey,
and she was horrified by the Senators
who defended Kavanaugh.
They are so unfeeling, you know? I would
hate to be their wives. If they just sit there
and take this guy’s word for it, I feel sorry
for the wives of these guys who are so macho
that they can’t see a woman’s point of view.
The hearing motivated her to come
forward.
I just felt now is the time to tell my story,
and maybe other women will come forward,
and maybe they will do something more
about the way that women are disbelieved.
She said it was a relief to finally
share her secret. ‘‘I am about to get
weepy,’’ she said.
Do you think this woman, who is now
in her nineties and went to Reedsport
High School, takes any good feeling
away from the Senate in the way the
Senate treated Dr. Ford with regard to
the fact that it did not allow anyone
supporting her story to appear or with
regard to the fact that leadership was
consulted by the White House and that
the result was a scoping document that
did not allow the FBI to talk to the
people who had supporting informa-
tion?
Do you think she takes any good
feelings away from the way this Senate
treated Debbie Ramirez in its attack-
ing her and disqualifying her without
even letting her come and tell her
story and not talking to the 20 people
she suggested had corroborative infor-
mation?
Do you think she takes anything
good away from the horrific way these
women were treated and the unfair way
they were treated? I do not think so.
You must look at the way the Senate
behaved and say that is supposed to be
a distinguished body, that it is sup-
posed to being an esteemed body. We
should expect the best from the U.S.
Senate and we got the worst.
Another woman wrote:
You must stop the confirmation of
Kavanaugh, especially after his angry, abu-
sive testimony today that was full of lies. I
am a sexual assault survivor, and I am abso-
lutely full of despair this evening.
I am not the only one getting these
letters. So, to my colleagues, I ask: Are
you doing anything to address the
anger about the way Dr. Ford was
treated? Are you insisting that she get
fair treatment before you vote to send
Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court of
the United States? Are you insisting
those who can corroborate Debbie Ra-
mirez’s story, including a professor at
the Princeton Theological Seminary,
have the chance to tell their stories be-
fore you send Kavanaugh to the Su-
preme Court? Are you?
Another individual wrote:
Please, please, please vote no to elect Brett
Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. As a vic-
tim of domestic violence, I am full of fear for
everyone who would be affected by the deci-
sions Kavanaugh would have the power to
make.
This letter starts out:
Senator, I want to thank you for express-
ing your concerns regarding the Kavanaugh
issues. I am a survivor of rape by my best
friend’s older brother at the age of 10. I also
survived many years of abuse by my ex-hus-
band. While watching the coverage of the
Kavanaugh news, I have heard Senators
make very hurtful comments about the
women who have come forward. I was proud
of my Senator for having the courage to pub-
licly announce that the way this has been
managed by the Trump administration is
wrong.
I totally relate to what Dr. Ford describes
as being held down and not being able to
breathe. The only word that adequately de-
scribes this type of treatment is torture. I do
not know where my former best friend’s
brother is; however, my ex-husband walks
around with a religious cross around his
neck. He is a pillar of his church, has the ad-
miration of our daughter. I never told my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.015 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6653
October 5, 2018
children, while I am left with years of night-
mares and fear.
The Kavanaugh allegations in the news
have triggered memories I have tried to bury
for decades.
She says:
Though, your comments have renewed my
faith that other than my older brother, there
exists good men who want to support women
who live with the torment of sexual abuse.
I would love it if this letter said: I
was afraid that the all-male majority
of the Judiciary Committee would
treat Dr. Ford unfairly. I was afraid
but relieved when they heard her out. I
was relieved when they insisted that
those who could back up her story were
allowed to testify. I was relieved and
pleased they took her seriously enough
that they insisted the FBI—they told
the President the FBI has to talk to
those folks for us to have any credi-
bility. I would love for this letter to
say that, but it doesn’t say any of
those things because this body, this
leadership, let her down and let every
woman across America who has been a
victim of sexual violence down.
Another woman wrote and said:
Today’s hearing was difficult yet impor-
tant to watch. As a victim of sexual assault
myself, I applied your support hearing Dr.
Ford’s accounts and believing in doing what
is right and just.
Wouldn’t it be better if this letter
could say: I applaud the Senate, the
Senate leadership, and the President of
the United States for believing in doing
what is right and just. We didn’t get
letters like that, did we.
Another individual writes:
Today was an extremely difficult day
watching the Kavanaugh hearings. I was so
amazed by the bravery Dr. Ford showed
throughout her testimony. Her experience
was raw and credible. As a young victim of
sexual assault, I feel emboldened because of
Dr. Ford’s testimony. Women need to be
heard and believed. We have to hold the Su-
preme Court to the highest standards. Brett
Kavanaugh is clearly not a candidate for the
Supreme Court.
Isn’t that right, that we should en-
sure that we have the highest stand-
ards for those who serve on the Su-
preme Court?
All those district judges across the
land writing their decisions, they get
appealed to the circuit courts, and all
those circuit court judges writing their
opinions, they get appealed to the Su-
preme Court, to nine individuals. Isn’t
it important that we proceed to ensure
that we ‘‘hold the Supreme Court to
the highest standards’’? We will not do
that if we confirm Brett Kavanaugh to
the Court.
We will be setting an abysmally low
standard for integrity for all of the
falsehoods he has told and an incred-
ibly low standard for behavior. We saw
the behavior and the partisanship. We
didn’t see judicial temperament and
impartiality.
He violates basically every standard
we set for someone to serve on the Su-
preme Court. Yet we are having a vote
later today with an indication that he
will be approved.
Here is another letter:
I am a sexual assault survivor. I watched
today. The sex crimes prosecutor looks like
she had nailed Kavanaugh by his own cal-
endar. Dr. Ford testified that it was early
evening and casual. It appears the assault
happened at the home that Kavanaugh and
his friends worked out. This is when one of
the majority Judiciary members took over
and became angry partisans.
That is all she writes, but I think
what bothered a lot of people was that
the majority chose to bring in a pros-
ecutor—a prosecutor—to question Dr.
Ford, as if Dr. Ford had committed a
crime.
She didn’t commit a crime, my
friends. She is a brave woman who
came forward to share her story, hop-
ing she would be taken seriously and
treated fairly, afraid she wouldn’t, and
it turned out her fears were justified.
They hired a prosecutor to treat her
like a criminal. Wow. That is insult to
injury.
This letter is longer. It is the 16th
story I am reading that I received from
constituents back home.
Watching Dr. Ford’s treatment in the Sen-
ate today, I am having a hard time getting
my own work done. Dr. Ford’s assault experi-
ence parallels my own in ways I have not
thought about in years. However, unlike
Judge Kavanaugh, my assailant was able to
complete the assaults he set out to do be-
cause we were not inebriated at the time he
violated me. He merely used his size to over-
power me, outweighing me by 150 pounds.
Like Brett Kavanaugh, my assailant at-
tended an all-boy’s Catholic school, attended
a prestigious university, went on to become
an attorney. I have considered, because of
the types of clients he represents, bringing
the multiple assaults he perpetrated over the
course of 2 weeks, while I stayed with his
family across the country from my own, to
the attention of the State bar where he prac-
tices or journalists in the State where he de-
fended Catholic priests accused of abusing
children.
Seeing now what Dr. Ford is being put
through, knowing she was driven from her
home and threatened, is now being assaulted
by her colleagues, gives me pause.
My assailant isn’t up for any prestigious
promotions. He is not on the short list for a
Federal judicial position or running for any
public office. It has been 18 years, and the
statute of limitations in the State where
this took place may or may not have run
out, depending on how the acts are defined.
If my assailant decides to follow through
with his goal to become a politician, my cal-
culus may change. For now, I need you to do
what you can to shut this nomination down,
to show the world that you not only believe
Dr. Ford but you honor—honor—her testi-
mony.
Your colleagues, your Republican col-
leagues, clearly believe her; they just don’t
think it matters. Please, as a survivor and as
a constituent, I am begging you, make her
testimony matter.
Are we going to make her testimony
matter? We are not going to make it
better if we send Kavanaugh to a seat
on the Supreme Court.
Her desire, her interest, her possi-
bility of coming forward is cut short by
the way she saw this Senate treat Dr.
Ford. That is a very sad commentary
on the injustice perpetrated by this
body.
This is letter No. 17. I have more
than 50 letters here. As you can start
to hear, the themes of women being as-
saulted are very similar; women hear-
ing in Dr. Ford’s story their own expe-
rience, and they are asking the Senate
to treat the women who have come for-
ward with fairness and justice and are
being deeply disturbed that they have
not been treated with fairness or jus-
tice.
There is still time. There is still time
until we vote and send Kavanaugh for-
ward, if we vote no, as these women
asked because an individual with this
record does not belong on the Court.
Then we will admire the courage of
these individuals to come forward.
The next letter:
As a survivor of assault, it’s important to
me that the nominee for one of the highest
offices have an impeccable record, which
Kavanaugh has demonstrated he does not
have, both through his reactionary hearing
and the accusations against him from sur-
vivors. I implore you to be a voice of reason
in the chaos.
My first assault happened in 2011. I am so
ashamed that the only way my sister found
out was because she found an STD test I had
received from Planned Parenthood and asked
me about it. I was 24. I had nightmares for
months. It changed everything.
My second assault happened in 2015. I was
drunk and in an unfamiliar part of town. An
acquaintance offered to give me a ride when
I was leaving a bar and my phone died.
She goes on to describe the attack.
She says:
I say this not for shock value, but to em-
phasize how painful watching this hearing
was and how unsurprised I will be if
Kavanaugh is confirmed.
Unsurprised because she doesn’t ex-
pect men to treat women fairly who
have been assaulted and have come for-
ward. And everything that has hap-
pened in this Chamber confirms that.
The next letter notes:
As a survivor of sexual assault, this issue
is of the utmost importance. I rarely speak
of these events and have tears streaming
down my face just writing this. I was unable
to report my assault for various reasons, in-
cluding explicit death threats, fear of expo-
sure by the media, and threats by several
powerful men who had the ability to end my
career before it had even really begun. This
situation hits so close to home that it has
been physically painful—physically painful—
for me to watch much of the coverage. I have
been unable to obtain justice for myself, and
that is soul-crushing. But what would be a
greater travesty is to allow a serial predator
a lifetime appointment affecting the lives of
every single woman in America. Are we
going to be part of a greater travesty?
Letter No. 19:
As a constituent and a victim, I am writ-
ing to you to make sure that you vote
against Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation.
During his hearings, Kavanaugh misled the
Judiciary Committee under oath. He refused
to say whether a sitting President must obey
a subpoena and refused to answer whether
President Trump could pardon himself or
bribe someone with a pardon. And now,
Kavanaugh has been accused of sexual as-
sault by multiple women.
Kavanaugh’s answers during his confirma-
tion hearings add to the evidence that
Trump nominated him not to protect the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.017 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6654 October 5, 2018
American people, not to protect the Con-
stitution, but to protect himself. It was only
a few weeks ago that Trump’s former lawyer
incriminated him in two felonies. It’s becom-
ing inevitable that a Trump case will reach
the Supreme Court, either over his role in
crimes to win the White House or a subpoena
to answer questions from the special counsel.
We already know that Kavanaugh believes
sitting presidents should not be under Fed-
eral prosecution or even investigation. Now,
under oath, Kavanaugh isn’t even pretending
to be an impartial justice. That is exactly
why Trump nominated Kavanaugh—to be his
get-out-of-jail-free card.
Letter No. 20 begins:
As a rape victim myself, I am livid that
this man is even being considered for a high
position. Brett Kavanaugh’s views are ex-
treme. His belligerent behavior during the
hearing shows that he should not sit on the
highest court in the country. I urge you to
reject that radical choice of a justice who
would put our basic rights at risk. Use your
constitutional authority of advice and con-
sent to ensure that the President cannot
place unfit extremists in positions of power
that can affect us for decades.
Serving for life on the highest court, jus-
tices have the solemn responsibility to be
fair, to be evenhanded, to uphold the sanc-
tity of our laws and our Constitution, and to
keep faith with the letter and the spirit of
the Nation’s core, public health, environ-
mental, civil rights, and labor laws. His
record rejects these principles. Please do all
in your power to stop Brett Kavanaugh’s
nomination.
Letter after letter reminds us that
the Supreme Court is so important. We
should only send individuals to serve
on that Bench who are of unimpeach-
able character.
Letter No. 21:
I am deeply concerned about Brett
Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme
Court after hearing Dr. Christine Blasey
Ford’s story. There is no need to wait to pub-
licly say that you believe Dr. Ford. She has
generously offered more than enough infor-
mation for us to fiercely support her.
I, too, am a victim of sexual assault. When
I was 21, my boss at the time raped me, leav-
ing me with a lifelong disease, and it never
was reported. I had no support. I was embar-
rassed and humiliated and wanted to just
forget about it. Looking back, I wish I would
have tried to report him. I was a single
mother with a 2-year-old child and my 12-
year-old sister present when the assault oc-
curred in the middle of the night as they
slept.
This happened to me in 1974. I am now a 66-
year-old woman who has had relationship
problems her whole life and self-esteem and
anxiety and sexual dysfunction ever since.
A lifetime impact from sexual as-
sault.
Each of these women wants us to
take seriously the experiences that
were shared, and to take it seriously
means we would look into it with fair-
ness and credibility, but we didn’t. The
Senate didn’t.
Letter No. 22:
It would be beyond unethical to continue
with Kavanaugh’s nomination in the wake of
Dr. Blasey’s story. I am counting on you.
Signed, a MeToo survivor.
Letter No. 23:
As a victim of sexual assault during my
military service, I, too, told next to no one.
Why? I wasn’t about to subject myself to
being treated the way these courageous
women who have spoken up are being treat-
ed. I am counting on you. Thank you.
We hear this time and again. Women
say they didn’t speak up because they
thought they would be treated un-
fairly—unfairly—just the way the Sen-
ate treated the women who came for-
ward and shared their stories about
Brett Kavanaugh. Isn’t that a sorry
legacy for this body? Isn’t that a
shameful result, that women say they
didn’t speak up because they thought
they would be treated unfairly, just
like the Senate is now unfairly treat-
ing Dr. Ford and Debbie Ramirez?
Wouldn’t it be a beautiful thing to
have done it differently, to have pro-
ceeded to say: Your story matters, so
we will talk to those you suggested
have corroborating information. We
will report what information there is
for the consideration of the Senate. We
do appreciate that you have shared
your experience, and we will look into
it.
Wouldn’t that have been a very dif-
ferent message to send, an example to
send for everyone across this country—
for companies when an employee re-
ports an assault, for places of worship
when a parishioner reports an assault,
for schools, universities, when a stu-
dent reports an assault?
Wouldn’t it have been great to set an
example—a high example of how to
treat an individual fairly? But we did
the opposite. We showed exactly the
type of treatment that these women
fear—a rigged, unfair, unconcerned re-
sponse. But there is time to remedy
that by not voting to confirm.
One of the reasons I am reading these
letters is that many of the women who
wrote said they were writing to try to
make a difference. My team called and
talked to a number of them, and they
encouraged their letters to be used.
They want to be heard. They want to
be honored with our intention that we
care about the experiences they have
suffered, that we take them seriously.
They want us to think about what we
have done and take Dr. Ford and
Debbie Ramirez seriously. That hasn’t
happened, but there is still time by not
confirming Brett Kavanaugh.
In this letter, the individual says:
How you vote on Brett Kavanaugh’s nomi-
nation is one of the most crucial votes you
will cast. Please vote no.
Prior to hearing this round of hearings, I
was concerned about his ability to be truth-
ful. Now, as a survivor, I am fearful for the
entire female population. I urge you to vote
no for all of those reasons.
Letter No. 25:
I believe Dr. Christine Blasey Ford. I do
not believe a man who could have stifled a
frightened woman’s screams while he felt en-
titled to put his hands on her body without
her permission. I do not believe such a per-
son is fit for one of the highest courts in our
country. She took a lie detector test. He did
not. She called for an FBI investigation. He
did not. She was calm and collected. He was
not.
As a sexual assault survivor and your con-
stituent, I implore you to stand with women.
Letter No. 26:
Thank you for fighting. I was a victim of
sexual assault at age 12. I am now 71. I re-
member it vividly. It has affected my whole
life. If Kavanaugh is confirmed, we will put
a horrible man on our highest court.
Thank you for highlighting the seri-
ous deficiencies in the process of Presi-
dent Trump’s nominee, Brett
Kavanaugh, to the Supreme Court.
Letter No. 27:
I am heartened by your efforts and like-
minded Members of Congress who have
joined the 21st century, many whose eyes,
ears, hearts, and minds have witnessed the
scourge of sexual misconduct. I am a 58-year-
old Native American, native Oregonian. I
grew up on a Catholic Indian mission with
both my parents and seven brothers and sis-
ters. Later in life, I recalled through discus-
sions with my younger sister that my older
brothers had most likely sexually abused me
when I was a very young girl, less than 7
years old. I never reported it because I didn’t
recall it until I was in my 40s. My parents
were alive and it would have destroyed them.
I am a sexual assault survivor who never
told my best friend in high school when one
rape occurred.
She proceeds to share information
about several other assaults when she
was serving in the Army, and she says
that each time, she didn’t report it.
All of these incidents left me fearful, feel-
ing vulnerable, psychologically damaged,
PTSD, emotional trauma, physical trauma,
and other problems too incalculable to quan-
tify.
I think these topics are often not dis-
cussed. Women in our own lives may
have had experiences they have never
shared with us, thinking that they
might be blamed, feeling that they are
ashamed, considering that they might
not be believed, anticipating that they
might expect that we would feel they
should somehow have prevented it or
somehow invited it. All of these con-
flicts—they sense they will not be
treated with respect and dignity as the
victims they are. Let’s treat them with
respect and dignity when they bring
forward their stories.
Dear Senator MERKLEY: I have never taken
the time to write a Senator. With Trump as
President, or having Trump as President has
caused depression and anxiety, but I have
gritted my teeth, battened down the hatches,
and tried to weather the storm. However,
this saga with Kavanaugh has mobilized me
to speak out and protest a person of his
moral ineptitude.
I am a victim of sexual assault. I am sure
you’re hearing the outpouring of messages
like mine from hundreds of women. I am so
angry and so bitter about the current envi-
ronment that promotes racism, sexism. The
things I have seen voted in make me despair.
Rather than the Senate behave in a
way that makes women despair, what
if we behaved in a way that inspired,
set an example, had people say: We
didn’t think you would rise to the chal-
lenge because so often we have seen
mistreatment when they bring forward
their stories, but you shocked us be-
cause you took it seriously and you
treated these women fairly. Wouldn’t
that be a beautiful story rather than
the reality of where we are right now?
Letter No. 29:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.018 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6655
October 5, 2018
There are a number of viable options for
this Supreme Court seat—individuals not ac-
cused of any crimes—and regardless of inno-
cence or guilt, Kavanaugh has shown himself
to be unqualified to remain impartial as a
judge. Furthermore, the backlash of there
being any question of guilt regarding rape
accusations is too great for him to success-
fully fulfill the duties of that position and
will cause a division between voters that will
likely never be healed.
Speaking as both a concerned voter and
rape survivor, there is no legitimate reason
that we cannot find another candidate for
this job. If he is appointed despite these alle-
gations, it will be all but impossible for a
rape survivor to ever feel safe in the U.S.
again. How could we if an accused rapist is
presiding as a member of the highest court
in the country?
She makes a point. There are many
other people who can be considered to
be brought forward. Why this indi-
vidual who demonstrated such par-
tisanship? Why this individual who
bent and, yes, broke the truth many
times before the committee? Why this
individual who wrote offensive, mock-
ing, accusing, disgracing things, at-
tacking a woman in his yearbook? Why
this individual who chose to join a fra-
ternity with a reputation for assault-
ing women? Why this individual who
chose to join a secret society with a
similar reputation? Why this indi-
vidual about whom credible women
have come forward and shared their
stories of assault? And why this indi-
vidual when we had the full oppor-
tunity to have considered the corrobo-
rating information from 28 individuals
who they asked that we talk to and we
didn’t?
There is still time to reject this nom-
ination and somehow restore the tar-
nished reputation that is the product
of the behavior of this body during this
nomination process.
Letter No. 30:
I am 66 years old, nearly 67. I can tell you
exactly what occurred when I was a victim of
sexual assault and attempted rape at age 16.
It was burned into my memory and will for-
ever be a part of me.
I continue to be shaken to the core that
anyone would explain such behavior as nor-
mal, part of young men growing up. It is un-
conscionable, unacceptable, and must no
longer be ignored.
Letter No. 31:
Dear Senator MERKLEY, I am reaching out
to you as a survivor of teenage rape. Like so
many other survivors, I have been following
the events surrounding Judge Kavanaugh’s
nomination with so much emotion that I
cannot really begin to express it. I do not be-
lieve that I need to ask you to say no when
it comes to a floor vote, but I want you to
add my voice to the many who are speaking
out in the hope that the country will listen.
Sexual assault affects millions of girls,
boys, women, and men. Too many of us live
our lives in shame and silence, disbelieved if
not outright blamed.
Nearly 30 years have passed since a fellow
student in my small town high school took
my innocence, to then proceed to publicly
shame me. People believed him, not me.
This has to stop. People need to realize
that we may forget some details, but we will
never, never forget what happened. And
when we know the perpetrator, we will never
forget his name. He may grow old. His ap-
pearance may change. But his name will re-
main etched in our brains forever.
She goes on to say:
Putting Kavanaugh on the court means
telling all of us, the countless millions, that
we do not matter.
She closes by saying:
We matter. I matter.
Yes, you do. And when you say that
you are adding your voice to the many
who are speaking out in the hope that
the country will listen, I commend
you. I commend you for being brave
enough to share your story and to ask
those in this Chamber to listen. But so
far, they have not listened because lis-
tening would mean treating with re-
spect and dignity the women coming
forward. Listening would mean giving
these women the opportunity not just
to present their case, their experience,
but to have those who can corroborate
their information come before the Ju-
diciary Committee and share their sto-
ries. Listening would mean insisting
that the FBI actually talk to the cor-
roborators rather than not talk to the
corroborators.
So you have not been listened to, I
am sorry to report, but there is still
time for someone—for several people—
to say: We have reflected on this situa-
tion and realize how unfair and unjust
we have been, how much we add to the
trauma of millions of women by not
listening to the women who have come
forward, not taking them seriously,
and rigging the system, as they feared
would happen.
This individual writes:
I have a voice even if those screams were
stifled inside of me so long ago. Today that
voice says that Kavanaugh is not fit to be a
member of the Supreme Court.
Beyond the details of what transpired
when he was a teenager, his atrocious dis-
play during Thursday’s hearing should dis-
qualify him outright. Integrity, level-
headedness, respect for the rule of law, and
lack of partisan bias should be fundamental
requirements of any justice.
Kavanaugh did not display any of those
traits. His confirmation would stain the Sen-
ate and the judiciary for years to come if not
permanently.
I will conclude by saying that Dr. Ford’s
incredible courage has helped me more than
any therapy session. She spoke. In speaking
her truth to power, she spoke for all of us.
I have shed so many tears watching and
following these proceedings, but finally feel
like I can stand tall, that I do not need to
hide or live in shame. Her story is, in so
many ways, my story. The smart girl who
loved math and somehow made it through
Stanford, completed a PhD, and embarked in
a career in research despite the trauma that
followed. . . .
All too often we hide behind a smile and
mask of strength so that people do not see
that inside we cannot stop shaking.
Lawmakers would be well advised to not
underestimate the strength of our power
when we raise our heads, shed our shame and
reclaim our voices. We may tremble, but we
will speak. We will be heard. We will NOT be
dismissed.
Letter No. 32:
I am a victim of sexual abuse as a child,
rape as a young adult, and sexual harass-
ment during my professional career. I am
also a successful practicing Child/Adolescent/
Adult psychiatrist, with 20+ years of experi-
ence.
Since Ms. Ford’s testimony, on Friday I
saw two female walk-in patients, one of
whom revealed to me her own sexual assault,
which occurred around the time of Ms.
Ford’s. She confessed this is the first time
she has told anyone about this. The other
woman I saw that day told a similar story.
From the press I understand crisis lines lit
up all over our nation, doubling their traffic
in some cases.
I write because I am worried. The press re-
ports that only two of the three women mak-
ing complaints against Mr. Kavanaugh will
be interviewed by the FBI. . . .
I am concerned that only two of the three
alleged victims . . . will be heard. To estab-
lish a pattern . . . the FBI must include as
many credible victims and witnesses as pos-
sible . . . particularly given the timelines
and deadlines they are up against.
Statistics on rape in the United States are
shockingly high, higher even than many less
developed countries.
She was concerned the FBI would not
be able to speak and interview those
who could corroborate the experiences.
It turned out far worse than she could
ever have imagined: 0 for 28—0 out of
28. Not, well, we talked to 5 out of 28.
Not we talked to 8 out of 28. The FBI
was 0 out of 28, not because the FBI
would choose to do that but because
they could only talk to people whom
they were allowed to talk to by the
President’s scoping instructions. Those
instructions were not to talk to anyone
who had credible supporting informa-
tion. That is such a violation of fair-
ness, of due process, of justice.
There is that beautiful set of words
carved into the front of the Supreme
Court: ‘‘Equal justice under law.’’
Wouldn’t anyone who had the right
character to serve there have insisted—
insisted—that these women get fair
treatment? But we didn’t hear Judge
Kavanaugh insisting. He didn’t even
want an FBI investigation. He cer-
tainly didn’t insist on there being one
that actually talked to the people who
had information. If your conscience is
clean, if your life experience is clear,
you don’t fear an investigation.
This letter goes on:
Furthermore, currently our Congress and
Senate do not reflect the 50.5% of Americans
who are female. In fact, in 2017 US female
representation by gender in Congress and the
Senate was far lower in the US than Ger-
many, France, United Kingdom, Sweden,
Belgium, Netherlands and Spain.
She cites the source as the Inter-Par-
liamentary Union Parline Database on
National Parliaments.
As a result we rely on men to understand
and act on this predominantly female prob-
lem. American women depend on your gal-
lantry to ensure our government does right
by us.
I plead with you to persuade our leaders to
do the right thing. Think of your mother,
your wife, your daughter and the women you
love. Show us we are valued. As you make
your phone calls know American women
watch with fear and hope. Don’t let us down.
Did we treat Dr. Ford and Debbie Ra-
mirez in the way we would want our
mother, our wife, our daughter, or the
women we love to be treated? No, we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.020 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6656 October 5, 2018
did not. She wrote asking for us to not
let her down, and we have let her down.
There is only one appropriate thing to
do, and that is not to send this man
who has bent and broken the truth
many times before the U.S. Senate to
the Supreme Court, not to send this
man who has credible accusations of
sexual assault that we were unwilling
to investigate to the Court.
The letter next notes:
As a sexual assault survivor it’s essential
to me that no person who perpetuates such
crimes ever sits in a position of power ever
again.
That kind of sums it up.
This is letter No. 34. She says:
I am a 52 year old proud Oregonian woman.
. . . I too am a victim and survivor of sexual
abuse, and sadly a member of the ‘‘Me too’’
club. Should you confirm Judge Kavanaugh,
you will be disrespecting every Me Too vic-
tim in America, young or old.
Victims of abuse are across the spectrum,
and no doubt probably also in your families.
Judge Kavanaugh is a nominee for a lifetime
appointment on the Supreme Court, an
interviewee. HE IS NOT A VICTIM. . . .
I did find it, by the way, so dis-
turbing to hear colleagues treat the
women who come forward as the crimi-
nals and treat the nominee as the vic-
tim. That is exactly the type of inver-
sion that women fear. That is exactly
the type of reversal that has women de-
ciding that they will never get a fair
hearing, and it is exactly what hap-
pened right here in the U.S. Senate.
The letter continues:
Mrs. Ford was very brave in her testimony.
. . .
All of you on the Judiciary Committee—
WAKE UP! It is 2018, not 1991 with Clarence
Thomas, we now acknowledge and believe
victims that come forward to tell their sto-
ries, aka HER-stories.
We will never forget your actions in this
confirmation process.
Well, the writer is saying it is 2018,
not 1991, and yet we treated Dr. Ford
and Debbie Ramirez worse—worse than
we treated Anita Hill in 1991.
Letter No. 35 is a letter from Oregon
constituents writing in to share their
anger, their angst, their concern, their
desire that women coming forward be
treated fairly, their desire that we
treat them seriously enough to actu-
ally talk to corroborating witnesses.
Yet, unfortunately, we did not.
In letter No. 35, the woman writes:
I was also a victim of sexual assault when
I was in graduate school. I never pursued
that due to fear of consequences and feeling
that this was my fault. This has to stop.
Letter No. 36:
Senator MERKLEY, I write to you today to
urge you to vote no on the Kavanaugh nomi-
nation. The time has come for women to
have a say in this society that men will lis-
ten to.
I am a victim of sexual abuse. My case hap-
pened when I was 22.
I never told anyone about my experience
until I remarried 39 years ago.
I have an 8-year-old granddaughter, and I
pray that she will not ever have to battle
someone to save herself.
I am now 75, and I remember the exact
time and place this incident occurred. One
never forgets.
Letter No. 37:
I am myself a sexual assault survivor.
I listened to the testimony of Dr. Blasey
Ford . . . last Thursday. It was clear to me
that her testimony was credible.
The likelihood that she may not accu-
rately recall the identity of her assailant,
who was known to her before the assault, is
extremely improbable. Trust me. It is not
the sort of detail that an assault victim for-
gets.
The likelihood, on the other hand, that
Brett Kavanaugh may have failed to remem-
ber assaulting a . . . woman when he was
inebriated is quite probable. Not only does
excessive alcohol consumption dull the mem-
ory, but males who think so little of women
that they would thus assault them are likely
to dismiss the experience from memory as
inconsequential.
I implore you to continue to work tire-
lessly to encourage your colleagues to vote
no on Kavanaugh’s confirmation. . . . His in-
tegrity and character are in serious ques-
tion, and he showed a total lack of judicial
temperament. . . . I urge you to stand up.
I know these letters didn’t just go to
individuals on this side of the aisle. So
I ask my colleagues, have you read the
letters that you have received that
have asked you to take seriously the
experiences shared by Dr. Ford and by
Debbie Ramirez? Have you taken them
seriously? Did you insist that their
corroborating witnesses be inter-
viewed? The President’s team says it
consulted with the Senate’s leadership
on how the FBI investigation should be
done. We now know that, in the way it
was done, none of the 28 corroborating
witnesses were talked to—none. Did
you take seriously the women in your
home States who wrote to you the way
the women in my home State wrote to
me?
Letter No. 38:
If the FBI’s investigation was limited to
Ford’s and Ramirez’ allegations and excludes
the third credible allegation of Avenatti’s
client, it is wrong to cherry pick credibility.
I emphatically state that this third allega-
tion reflects my personal experience. I do not
divulge this lightly. It happened to me when
I was 14. It was both legally and morally
wrong, and I never reported it.
This was in 1971 in Southern California. It
was a recurrent event before I came to learn
that others were victimized in the same
manner—rendered unconscious in order to be
engaged without consent. It seems incredible
that I would end up attending other gath-
erings where individuals participating in
such activities would also be, but, in fact,
this is my experience as well.
One of my sisters—9 years younger—re-
counted that this culture existed during her
high school years in a party environment in
Northern California. In these environments,
there are certain coalitions of males who
covertly foster these environments, and the
victim is typically isolated in some back
room or even some hotel room.
Please maintain my anonymity, but take
seriously the consideration of my deeply per-
sonal account. There are many qualified ju-
rists who possess the appropriate qualities to
sit on the highest Court of America.
That was letter 38. Yet there are so
many more letters pouring into my of-
fice, reading: Take our experiences se-
riously. Take seriously the voices of
Dr. Ford and Debbie Ramirez. This in-
stitution has failed them.
I ask you, are you comfortable voting
for this nomination when this body did
not hear from the individuals who had
corroborating information and you did
not invite them to testify? Even that
was done in 1991. Are you comfortable
voting to support this nomination
when the FBI investigation was limited
by a scoping document that excluded
having interviews with any of the 28
people, put forward by the 2 victims,
who had information to support them?
Are you comfortable with that? You
shouldn’t be. You shouldn’t be com-
fortable voting for a nominee who is
under a shadow of allegations that we
didn’t even bother to explore.
It confirms everything that women
across this country fear—that when
they come forward and share their sto-
ries, they will not be taken seriously,
that the system will be rigged, and
that they will be blamed. Everything
they saw in the way the Senate han-
dled this situation was shameful and
embarrassing and beneath the dignity
of this body that should have given a
stellar example of how to respect and
investigate, but it did not.
My colleague from New York has ar-
rived to share her thoughts. I thank
her for her strong and fierce defense of
women across this country who have
suffered so much and been silent so
often in fear they will be disrespected
as the two women who came forward,
Debbie Ramirez and Dr. Ford, feared
they would be disrespected. This body
confirmed every fear they had.
Let’s not vote to put on the Supreme
Court of the United States an indi-
vidual who bent and broke the truth
many times before the committee; an
individual with a record—even, as we
know, from his high school and college
years—of abusing women; an individual
of arrogance and anger; an individual
with partisan sentiments; an individual
who thinks the President is beyond the
law; an individual who finds, time after
time, for the powerful over the people.
That is not the person who should be
confirmed to serve on the Supreme
Court of the United States of America.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from New
York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Madam Presi-
dent, today and these past several
weeks have been deeply painful for
many in this country. Today it is a
painful day for millions of women all
across the country who are rightly
worried about losing their basic civil
rights. It is a painful day for the brave
and courageous survivors who have had
to relive their trauma and, in some
cases, have found the courage to tell
their story for the very first time.
It is also a painful day for men who
hope to see this Senate stand on the
right side of history.
Today, in just a few hours, the U.S.
Senate is going to turn its back on
righteousness. It is going to turn its
back on fairness and reason, and, make
no mistake, it is going to turn its back
on women.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.021 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6657
October 5, 2018
What we have seen over the last few
weeks is an exercise of power: Who has
it and who doesn’t. Rather than a
search for the truth, we have seen
those in power ram through a nominee
who is unfit to serve on the Supreme
Court. Ultimately, this is about the
power structure of America, but it is
changing, and it is changing fast.
I want to say something right here
from the Senate floor to every woman
in America who is listening: I hear you.
Many of my colleagues in the Senate
hear you. We hear your stories. We
hear your voices, and we will be certain
they will not go unheard.
I have heard from constituents all
across my State. I have been talking to
people for the last several months, and
I have been talking to people specifi-
cally about this nominee for the past
several weeks. I have heard from
friends who have been sexually as-
saulted. I have heard from friends
whose daughters have been sexually as-
saulted. I have heard from people who
are outraged about what is happening
in this country right now—outraged at
a process that doesn’t seek the truth
and doesn’t seem to be fair.
Unfortunately, it is a moment when
survivors are having to relive the worst
moments of their lives in real time by
just watching the news.
So I am going to read a little bit of
information that was submitted to the
Senate Judiciary Committee on Sep-
tember 27 by Jessica Davidson from
End Rape on Campus. She writes a very
heartfelt letter about her own trauma,
about her own experience with sexual
violence, and about the representation
she provides from her organization.
She writes:
We envision a world in which each indi-
vidual has an educational experience free
from violence, and until then, that all sur-
vivors are believed, trusted, and supported.
Each year, we assist nearly 1,000 survivors
and their families directly, conduct edu-
cational campaigns, support student activ-
ists, and to advocate for policy reform ef-
forts that reach millions of individuals.
She asked:
How many more viral online moments
must be created before an incredible harm
and trauma we have experienced is enough to
be taken seriously when a survivor comes
forward? And why is the burden always shift-
ed to those who have experienced the harm?
She says an American is sexually as-
saulted every 98 seconds. Just imagine
how many lives are being destroyed.
She says more than an estimated
17,700,000 women and 2,780,000 men have
experienced an attempted or completed
rape since 1998; 3 million college stu-
dents will be sexually assaulted this
fall alone; 18,900 military servicemem-
bers bravely serving our country expe-
rienced sexual assault in 2014; and one
in every four voters in the United
States is a survivor—more than half of
all voters in the United States know a
survivor. Survivors make up a signifi-
cant portion of each U.S. Senator’s
constituencies, and survivors every-
where deserve to know that if they
come forward, they will be taken seri-
ously.
I received thousands of calls, hun-
dreds of letters, and I have read some
of those letters this morning. They are
so disturbing and so upsetting. I can’t
imagine what that must be like to deal
with in this moment that we are in
when you have Members of the Senate
who either don’t believe credible sur-
vivors or, if they do believe them, they
don’t care.
For every survivor out there who
feels she is not being heard, not being
listened to, not being believed, I want
you to know there are those of us here
who do believe you, who have heard
you, and who will fight for you. Your
voices are being heard, and they do
matter. Your willingness to protest, to
stand tall, to speak out, and to speak
clearly over these last few weeks has
been extraordinary. It has been power-
ful. It has been meaningful. It has
made a difference.
So do not fear that what you have
done was a waste of time. Do not fear
that speaking out doesn’t matter be-
cause it does. The energy and inspira-
tion you have created is going to drive
this movement forward.
I also want to talk a little bit about
why Brett Kavanaugh should not be
serving on the Supreme Court, why he
doesn’t deserve this seat, and I want to
talk a lot about his record and what we
know about Brett Kavanaugh as an in-
dividual.
Over these last few weeks, we have
learned a lot about this nominee, even
before we found out that more than one
woman had accused Judge Kavanaugh
of sexually assaulting her. His judicial
record was already clear, and many of
us made our decisions to oppose Judge
Kavanaugh based on that record—that
judicial record and statements alone.
That was the first reason I opposed
him—because I have no doubt he will
undermine women’s rights on the Su-
preme Court.
I will say more about his judicial
record in a moment, but what we all
saw and heard over the last few weeks
isn’t something that you can actually
discern from a judicial record. More
than one woman has come forward
with sworn statements under penalty
of perjury, saying Brett Kavanaugh
committed acts of sexual misconduct
against them. One of them, Dr. Blasey
Ford, even bravely testified before the
Senate Judiciary Committee. She was
under oath, and she relived one of the
worst moments of her life on national
television. She was credible. I believed
her.
When my colleagues asked her what
she remembered most clearly, her
strongest memory was the laughter.
She said that ‘‘indelible in the hippo-
campus is the laughter—the laugh, the
uproarious laughter between the two,
and their having fun at my expense.’’
She said: ‘‘They were laughing with
each other.’’ She said: ‘‘I was, you
know, underneath one of them while
the two laughed, two friend—two
friends having a really good time with
one another.’’
She was direct, and she did not evade
any questions. She did not duck or
dodge like someone who was trying to
hide the truth.
When my colleagues asked her with
what degree of certainty did she be-
lieve Brett Kavanaugh assaulted her,
she said: ‘‘One hundred percent.’’
When I was watching her testimony
sitting there in the room, there were
many moments when her testimony
brought me to tears. I thought the way
she opened was particularly moving.
She said:
I am here today not because I want to be.
I am terrified. I am here because I believe it
is my civic duty to tell you what happened
to me while Brett Kavanaugh and I were in
high school. I agonized daily with this deci-
sion throughout August and early September
2018. The sense of duty that motivated me to
reach out confidentially to the Washington
Post, Representative Eshoo’s office and Sen-
ator Feinstein’s office was always there, but
my fears of the consequences of speaking out
started to increase.
During August 2018, the press reported that
Mr. Kavanaugh’s confirmation was virtually
certain. His allies painted him as a champion
of women’s rights and empowerment. I be-
lieved that if I came forward my voice would
be drowned out by a chorus of powerful sup-
porters.
By the time of the confirmation hearings,
I had resigned myself to remaining quiet and
letting the committee and the Senate make
their decision without knowing what Mr.
Kavanaugh had done to me. At the same
time, my greatest fears have been realized
and the reality has been far worse than I ex-
pected.
Apart from the assault itself, these last
couple of weeks have been the hardest of my
life. I have had to relive my trauma in front
of the entire world and have seen my life
picked apart by people on television, in the
media, or in this body who have never met or
spoken with me. I have been accused of act-
ing out of partisan political motives. Those
who say that do not know me. I am a fiercely
independent person and I am no one’s pawn.
My motivation in coming forward was to
provide the facts about how Mr. Kavanaugh’s
actions have damaged my life so that you
can take that into serious consideration as
you make your decisions about how to pro-
ceed. It is not my responsibility to deter-
mine whether Mr. Kavanaugh deserves to sit
on the Supreme Court. My responsibility is
to tell the truth.
That is a woman of extraordinary hu-
mility and extraordinary courage.
I want to compare Dr. Blasey Ford’s
testimony to Judge Kavanaugh’s testi-
mony right after her. We all saw it.
Some of my colleagues have suggested
that because multiple women were
making very credible accusations
against Judge Kavanaugh that he had a
right to be angry, that he was right to
come out strong and fight back, like a
politician would. Really? Is that how a
judge is supposed to act? Not according
to Judge Kavanaugh.
I want to quote from a law review ar-
ticle he wrote 2 years ago about how a
good judge is supposed to act:
To be a good judge and a good umpire, it is
critical that you have the proper demeanor.
We must walk in the shoes of other judges,
the lawyers, and the parties.
It is important to understand then to keep
our emotions in check, and be calm against
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.023 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6658 October 5, 2018
the storm. To put it in the vernacular: to be
a good umpire and be a good judge, don’t be
a jerk.
Judge Kavanaugh would have been
well served to listen to his own advice.
I was shocked by his tirade against
my colleagues and my party. I was dis-
turbed by its vindictiveness, his ani-
mosity. I want to quote from his testi-
mony to remind you of exactly what he
said at his hearings. Every time I see
these words, I am in disbelief that a
sitting Federal judge—a nominee for
the Supreme Court—said them to the
Judiciary Committee in prepared testi-
mony under oath.
He said:
This whole two-week effort has been a cal-
culated and orchestrated political hit, fueled
with apparent pent-up anger about President
Trump and the 2016 election.
Fear that has been unfairly stoked about
my judicial record.
Revenge on behalf of the Clintons. And
millions of dollars in money from outside
left-wing opposition groups.
Supreme Court Justices are supposed
to be thinking about the law and only
the law, not elections, not political
parties, but now we know exactly what
Judge Kavanaugh is thinking about. He
is thinking about politics. He is think-
ing about leftwing conspiracies. He is
thinking about the 2016 election and
Trump and the Clintons.
Those aren’t my words; those are his
words, his testimony. He said them di-
rectly to the committee under oath
while the entire Nation was watching.
He showed us his true colors. He
showed us what he does when he is
under pressure. He showed us how he
really feels about our politics and our
political parties, even though he said
he always stays far away from politics
because judges aren’t supposed to go
there.
He showed us what he really thinks,
deep down, when his back is against a
wall. Think about that. A sitting Fed-
eral judge, a nominee to the Supreme
Court, shouting—shouted about Demo-
crats trying to take him down.
It makes me wonder, even if you love
every judicial decision this judge has
ever written, how can any of my col-
leagues argue, after hearing that ti-
rade, that this judge is unbiased? It
makes me wonder how any of my col-
leagues can ignore that fact. It makes
me wonder, to my colleagues who are
so desperate to confirm Brett
Kavanaugh at all costs, what decisions
by this judge are you so eager to see?
What do you already know about how
the supposedly fairminded judge is
going to rule that you would risk the
Court’s reputation by putting such a
blatant partisan on the bench?
A retired Supreme Court Justice,
John Paul Stevens, who was appointed
by a Republican, even came so far as to
change his mind and oppose Judge
Kavanaugh. Why? Because Judge
Kavanaugh is now clearly biased. He
said:
He has demonstrated a potential bias in-
volving potential litigants before the court
that he would not be able to perform its full
responsibilities.
And I think there is merit in that criticism
and that the Senators should really pay at-
tention to it.
For the good of the court, it’s not healthy
to get a new justice that can only do a part-
time job.
I agree with that. When the next big
gerrymandering case comes before the
Supreme Court, we already know how
Judge Kavanaugh feels about Demo-
crats because we heard directly from
him at the hearing, so we can’t expect
him to rule fairly in that case.
What if a forced arbitration case re-
lated to sexual harassment comes be-
fore the Court? We all heard Judge
Kavanaugh say under oath that cred-
ible allegations of sexual assault are
nothing but a leftwing conspiracy, so
we can’t expect him to rule fairly on
that one either.
There are real consequences to the
bias and partisanship and anger Judge
Kavanaugh showed at his hearing. I am
incredibly disappointed by this, and I
hope my colleagues think about this
one last time before they cast their
votes today.
I would like to talk a little bit about
his record as a judge. Whose side does
he take? Whom does he believe?
In one case, in a dissent, Judge
Kavanaugh said employers should not
have to give their workers insurance
that covers birth control if they don’t
want to. In other words, he thinks a
boss’s religion is more important than
a worker’s religion. Does that sound
fair to you, Madam President?
In another case, he had to decide
whether a pregnant teenage immigrant
girl should be allowed to have an abor-
tion. He made her wait for 9 weeks be-
fore he said no, and then he was over-
ruled by his judicial colleagues. He said
he didn’t think what he did to the girl
was an undue burden. Does that sound
fair to you?
Let’s not forget that President
Trump said he wanted the new Su-
preme Court Justice to overturn Roe v.
Wade, that he wanted to nominate
someone who would automatically vote
to overturn it. He chose Brett
Kavanaugh to get the job done.
If this Chamber confirms Judge
Kavanaugh, I have no doubt that the
Supreme Court will take away women’s
reproductive rights. I have no doubt
that the Supreme Court will tell
women they aren’t allowed to make
their own decisions with their own doc-
tors about their own health.
I want to speak about another part of
his record. Judge Kavanaugh wrote in
an opinion that if the President doesn’t
like a law, then the President could ig-
nore the law and ignore the courts.
This is what he said. As you listen to
this, let me know if you think this is
judicially sound judgment. He wrote:
‘‘Under the Constitution, the president
may decline to enforce a statute that
regulates private individuals when the
president deems the statute unconsti-
tutional, even if a court has held or
would hold the statute constitutional.’’
Anyone with the most basic under-
standing of how our constitutional sys-
tem of government works knows that
this is not what our Founding Fathers
designed. Anyone who has been paying
attention to President Trump’s attacks
on our institutions and his repeated at-
tempts to undermine the Mueller in-
vestigation should be alarmed by that
statement alone. It makes me think
President Trump’s choice for this
nominee was because he wanted to be
protected from the Mueller investiga-
tion.
I am also deeply concerned about
Judge Kavanaugh’s record on money in
politics.
It should come as no surprise that
Judge Kavanaugh is on the side of big
money interests that pollute our polit-
ical system. Kavanaugh was hand-
picked by White House Counsel Don
McGahn, a former FEC Commissioner
who was notorious for his hostility to-
ward campaign finance laws. Indeed,
Judge Kavanaugh fulfills President
Trump’s promise to nominate individ-
uals in the mold of Justice Scalia, a
steadfast opponent of campaign finance
regulations.
Like McGahn and Justice Scalia,
Kavanaugh has made his opposition to
campaign finance laws clear during his
time on the DC Circuit.
In 2011, Kavanaugh authored an opin-
ion that would allow foreign nationals
to spend unlimited funds on issue ads
in U.S. elections. Let me say that
again. Kavanaugh authored an opinion
that would allow foreign nationals to
spend unlimited funds on issue ads in
U.S. elections. That is the Bluman v.
FEC decision.
Kavanaugh presided over a lawsuit
brought by foreign persons living in
the United States who wanted to make
campaign contributions to candidates
in U.S. Federal elections. Although
Kavanaugh upheld provisions of Fed-
eral election law banning foreign per-
sons from contributing directly to a
candidate or party, Kavanaugh found
that federal election law ‘‘does not re-
strain foreign nationals from speaking
out about issues or spending money to
advocate their views about issues.’’
Under his reading of Federal election
law in Bluman, Kavanaugh would only
take issue with a small fraction of the
election meddling perpetrated by the
Russian operatives indicted by Special
Counsel Mueller.
At his confirmation hearing, Judge
Kavanaugh was given the opportunity
to directly address the possibility that
his decision in Bluman opened the door
for ‘‘Vladimir Putin . . . to buy issue
ads in American elections.’’ Judge
Kavanaugh’s response to Senator
WHITEHOUSE was misleading, indicating
that the Supreme Court affirmed the
case unanimously, which, while true as
to foreign contributions to candidates,
was not true on the point of issue ads.
Indeed, Judge Kavanaugh’s response
to a question for the record from Sen-
ator COONS also revealed his misleading
response to Senator WHITEHOUSE’s
question. He wrote: ‘‘The challengers
in Bluman did not seek to make con-
tributions to organizations that make
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.024 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6659
October 5, 2018
expenditures on issue ads. The opinion
made clear that the court’s ‘holding
does not address’ whether ‘Congress
might bar’ foreign nationals living
temporarily in the United States ‘from
issue advocacy and speaking out on
issues of public policy.’ ’’ The Supreme
Court unanimously affirmed the deci-
sion.
Judge Kavanaugh seeks to have it
both ways. He brags about his opinion
being unanimously upheld by the
Court, but when he is confronted with
the real-world consequences of his deci-
sion, he hides behind the pleadings.
According to Special Counsel
Mueller’s indictment, the issue ads run
by Russian operatives seeking to med-
dle in the 2016 election include the mes-
sages ‘‘JOIN our
#HillaryClintonForPrison2016’’—I don’t
even want to read the others; they are
so horrible. ‘‘Donald wants to defeat
terrorism . . . Hillary wants to sponsor
it.’’ Yet Judge Kavanaugh’s Bluman
decision would permit foreign actors to
run advertisements like the ones above
without consequence. In fact, legal
briefs filed by lawyers for the Russian
operatives indicted by Special Counsel
Mueller cite Kavanaugh’s Bluman opin-
ion for the proposition that ‘‘[f]oreign
nationals are not barred from issue ad-
vocacy . . . such as what is described in
the indictment.’’
Judge Kavanaugh opposes limita-
tions on big money in politics. During
his confirmation hearing, Judge
Kavanaugh was confronted by Senator
KLOBUCHAR with an email he wrote in
March 2002 wherein he suggested that
contribution limits could be unconsti-
tutional: ‘‘And I have heard very few
people say that the limits on contribu-
tions to candidates are unconstitu-
tional, although I for one tend to think
those limits have some constitutional
problems.’’ When Senator KLOBUCHAR
pressed Judge Kavanaugh on whether
he believed that ‘‘contribution limits
have constitutional problems,’’ Judge
Kavanaugh evaded the question and
issued a nonresponsive answer.
In a 2016 American Enterprise Insti-
tute speech, Kavanaugh said that polit-
ical spending ‘‘absolutely’’ deserves
First Amendment protection because
‘‘to make your voice heard [in politics]
. . . you need to raise money to be able
to communicate to others in any kind
of effective way.’’
In 2009, in EMILY’s List v. FEC,
Kavanaugh heard a challenge to mul-
tiple FEC regulations restricting the
use of ‘‘hard-money’’ by nonprofit or-
ganizations in Federal elections. These
particular regulations were passed in
striking down these regulations.
Kavanaugh held that nonprofit organi-
zations are ‘‘constitutionally entitled
to raise and spend unlimited money in
support of candidates for elected of-
fice’’ because it is ‘‘implausible that
contributions to independent expendi-
ture political committees are cor-
rupting.’’
These are really concerning state-
ments about unlimited money and
spending in politics from foreign na-
tionals on issue ads and from moneyed
interests. I do not believe that money
is speech, and I do not believe that cor-
porations should have the same free
speech rights as individuals, but Judge
Kavanaugh does, and I find that to be
deeply troubling.
Judge Kavanaugh also has a very dis-
turbing record when it comes to rolling
back the civil rights of millions of
Americans.
In his time as a judge, Brett
Kavanaugh has consistently sided
against Americans who are trying to
exercise their civil rights. From voting
rights, to employment discrimination,
to the rights of those with disabilities,
Kavanaugh has taken positions that
perpetuate inequality. Judge
Kavanaugh’s record leaves little
doubt—if confirmed to the Supreme
Court, he will continue to roll back the
hard-won rights of millions of Ameri-
cans.
As a partner at Kirkland & Ellis,
Kavanaugh was involved in Rice v.
Cayetano, which challenged Hawaii’s
right to limit participation in an elec-
tion for the State’s Office of Hawaiian
Affairs to Native Hawaiians. In a brief
he cowrote with Robert Bork and
Roger Clegg—the latter of whom heads
the anti-affirmative-action Center for
Equal Opportunity—Kavanaugh argued
that restricting participation to Native
Hawaiians was unconstitutional. Ac-
cording to Kavanaugh, it did not mat-
ter that Hawaii’s ‘‘voting qualification
in elections for the Office of Hawaiian
Affairs [was] designed to remedy past
discrimination in voting against ‘Ha-
waiians’ in Hawaii.’’ Discussing that
decision in a 1999 interview, Kavanaugh
said that the ‘‘case is one more step
along the way in what I see as an inevi-
table conclusion within the next 10 or
20 years when the court will say we are
all one race in the eyes of govern-
ment.’’
Kavanaugh’s adoption of Justice
Scalia’s approach from Adarand Con-
structors v. Pena that ‘‘in the eyes of
government, we are [all] just one race’’
indicates a belief that the government
should be ‘‘color blind.’’ Under this
theory, affirmative action and minor-
ity contracting requirements would be
constitutionally prohibited.
Those are just some of the issues
that I care about and that New Yorkers
care about. I am very troubled about
this nominee for so many reasons—for
his record, for his beliefs, for his judi-
cial temperament, for how he treated
women Senators during that hearing.
When we vote on this nomination
later today, when we decide whether
Judge Kavanaugh deserves to have the
privilege to serve on the Supreme
Court, there is just one fundamental
question that I believe should be on all
of our minds when we make this deci-
sion: Do we as a country value women?
Does the Supreme Court value women?
Does the Senate value women? Does
the President? Most of all, does Brett
Kavanaugh value women?
Millions of Americans—millions of
women—are watching us today. They
are waiting to see whether, when a
woman comes forward and says she is a
survivor of sexual assault, this Cham-
ber—do the individuals here take her
seriously? Do we listen to her, or do we
disregard her and disbelieve her and pa-
tronize her?
The last 2 weeks have been so incred-
ibly painful for women who have expe-
rienced sexual trauma, for survivors all
across this country. When they are
watching some of the most powerful
people in this country disregard Dr.
Blasey Ford—they distrust her, they
disbelieve her, and they devalue her—it
is painful for all of them. It is painful
because they are tired of seeing the
same old outcome every single time.
They are tired of the same old scenario
where the men are believed and the
women are not. They can’t believe
their eyes when they see two women
being treated with so little respect and
with less of a process than even Anita
Hill received.
One of the worst parts of this process
has been that we have been through it
before. Almost three decades ago,
Anita Hill sat right where Dr. Blasey
Ford sat. She went through the same
kind of cross-examination. She was dis-
believed. She was patronized. She was
disrespected. We said we would never
put another woman through that. We
said we had learned lessons from that
fiasco. We said it would never happen
again, but it did. And I really believe
that the process over the last few
weeks was shameful. We should have
learned from our mistakes, and we
should be doing much better.
But I can tell you, America’s women
are watching. They are watching what
our leaders decide to do. They are
watching who is listening and who is
not. And they have made a decision
that I could have never imagined or
predicted. So many women in this
country—and men—have made the de-
cision since President Trump was
elected that they are going to be heard.
They are going to march. They are
showing up at townhalls. They are
showing up outside of Federal offices.
They are coming to Washington. They
are knocking on Senate doors. They
are speaking out. They are protesting.
They are carrying signs. They are
speaking their truth, and they are
speaking truth to power in a way they
perhaps never imagined they would do.
They are running for office. Over 200
women are running for Congress alone
as nominees of their party this year—
more than ever in the history of Amer-
ica. They are working hard to right the
wrongs that they see happening in this
country.
They know that what makes this
country great—what has always made
this country great—is that we have
cared about one another, that we are a
country that believes in the golden
rule, and that we are a country that be-
lieves you should care about the least
among us.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.026 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6660 October 5, 2018
Every generation has tried to make
this country a more perfect union.
Whether it is fighting to end slavery
through abolition; whether it is fight-
ing for basic voting rights for all Amer-
icans through the suffragist movement;
whether it is the civil rights movement
saying that equality is necessary in
this country and people must be pro-
tected by the law; whether it is the
LGBT equality movement to ensure
that we can marry the people we love;
whether it is people’s desire today to
ensure healthcare as a right and not a
privilege, this is what our country is
about.
I deeply feel that the process over
these last few months has turned our
backs on that basic desire to bring our
country to a more perfect union, to a
place where we value one another.
Do we value women? Unfortunately,
for too many in this Chamber, the an-
swer is no.
I hope the American people are lis-
tening. I hope they are watching. I
hope they will fight for what they be-
lieve in, their values, and what this
country stands for.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
ROUNDS). The Senator from Minnesota.
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I thank
the Senator from New York for her ter-
rific words this morning. I am so grate-
ful to be here with her today.
I rise today to express my opposition
to the nomination of Judge Brett
Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court of
the United States. From the time his
nomination was announced, it has been
clear to me what type of Supreme
Court Justice Judge Kavanaugh would
be, and I firmly believe he is not the
Justice our country needs. Appointing
Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme
Court would be bad for Minnesotans
and bad for our country.
First this morning, I would like to
speak about the aspects of Judge
Kavanaugh’s record and scholarship
that I find most troubling—his deci-
sions on women’s freedoms, the envi-
ronment, voting rights, and his views
on Executive power. Next, I would like
to discuss why Judge Kavanaugh’s
temperament and credibility dem-
onstrate that he does not merit the
trust and confidence necessary for the
Senate to appoint him to a lifelong ap-
pointment to our Nation’s highest
Court.
I have been opposed to Judge
Kavanaugh’s nomination since the be-
ginning because his record shows that
he is far outside the mainstream of
legal thought on issues that matter to
Minnesotans, such as women’s free-
doms, healthcare, voting rights, and
the environment.
If you remember, we knew quite a lot
about Judge Kavanaugh before he was
even formally named as President
Trump’s Supreme Court nominee. This
is because Judge Kavanaugh’s name
was chosen from a short list prepared
by the far-right Federalist Society and
Heritage Foundation. This list con-
tained 25 potential nominees who were
selected because they could be trusted
to fulfill President Trump’s repeated
campaign pledge to appoint Justices
who would ‘‘automatically’’ overturn
Roe v. Wade and dismantle the Afford-
able Care Act.
While we can assume that nominees
drawn from that short list have con-
vinced the Federalist Society and the
Heritage Foundation that they passed
these two litmus tests, Judge
Kavanaugh has a judicial record to
prove it. Therefore, from the time his
name first appeared on President
Trump’s short list, we knew what kind
of Justice he would be—one that is out
of step with the American people, the
legal academy, and the clear dictates
of our Constitution, which promise lib-
erty and equality for all and not just
for the privileged few. This is not what
our country needs, especially now.
A review of Judge Kavanaugh’s
record shows it includes restricting
women’s freedoms, supporting efforts
to suppress the votes of minorities and
low-income people, reliably siding with
polluters at the expense of the public’s
health and allowing unlimited dark
money to influence our elections. I find
this record deeply concerning. It is evi-
dence that if confirmed, Judge
Kavanaugh would take this country
backward, reversing course on decades
of hard-won progress.
So my assessment of his judicial
record is enough for me to conclude
that Judge Kavanaugh is not the type
of jurist Minnesotans need on the Su-
preme Court. In this time of unprece-
dented political polarization, our coun-
try needs confidence in knowing that
the Supreme Court can fulfill the con-
stitutional promise that we are all
equal before the law.
That is why I had hoped President
Trump would nominate a consensus
Justice—someone dedicated to pro-
tecting the rights of all Americans. Yet
it is clear Judge Kavanaugh will not be
that Justice. So I would like to talk in
more depth about three of the reasons
it is clear to me that based on his judi-
cial record, Judge Kavanaugh is more
dedicated to advancing a far-right par-
tisan policy agenda than in defending
the equal rights of all Americans.
First, a judge who would let the gov-
ernment restrict women’s access to re-
productive healthcare is not someone
who is dedicated to protecting the pri-
vacy, dignity, and freedom of all
women.
Last year, Judge Kavanaugh wrote a
dissent in a case called Garza v.
Hargan, in which he sided with the
Trump administration in its attempt
to prevent a young immigrant woman
from accessing an abortion. Even
though this young woman had com-
plied with every State legal require-
ment, Judge Kavanaugh argued that
the Federal Government could, none-
theless, prevent her from obtaining an
abortion until she could be placed with
a sponsor. That process took weeks and
jeopardized her ability to obtain a pro-
cedure at all. Yet, in his dissent, Judge
Kavanaugh concluded that this govern-
ment-caused delay did not constitute
an undue burden on this woman’s con-
stitutional right to make her own deci-
sions about her reproductive
healthcare.
When Senator DURBIN questioned him
about this case before the Senate Judi-
ciary Committee, Judge Kavanaugh re-
peated his familiar refrain that he was
just following precedent, but the ma-
jority of his fellow judges on the DC
Circuit Court of Appeals read the Su-
preme Court’s precedent on this issue
very differently, as do I.
In Planned Parenthood v. Casey, the
Supreme Court firmly established that
our constitutional right to privacy pro-
tects women from ‘‘unduly burdensome
interference with her freedom to decide
whether to terminate her pregnancy.’’
This has come to be known as the
undue burden standard. It means the
government is prohibited from making
laws, rules, or policies that have the
‘‘purpose or effect of placing a substan-
tial obstacle in the path of a woman
seeking an abortion.’’
Yet Judge Kavanaugh saw no prob-
lem with forcing this young woman to
wait 9 weeks to obtain the medical care
she needed—the medical care a Texas
judge agreed she was competent to re-
quest and entitled to obtain. Instead,
in arguing that this delay was justi-
fied, Judge Kavanaugh implied that
this young woman was incapable of
making her own medical decisions be-
cause she did not have her ‘‘family and
friends to rely on’’ in her decision-
making process.
I trust women to make these deci-
sions for themselves and their families,
and I am here to tell you that women
do not need the government looking
over their shoulders in the examina-
tion room and telling them what they
can and cannot do. As the only Senator
who has ever worked at Planned Par-
enthood, I know that when women do
not have the freedom to make their
own choices about their reproductive
healthcare, they lose the freedom to di-
rect their own lives—their personal
lives, their families, their economic se-
curity.
I believe we deserve a Supreme Court
Justice who is dedicated to protecting
a woman’s right to make her own pri-
vate decisions about her reproductive
healthcare. Yet, based on his dissent in
the Garza case and the President’s re-
peated promises to nominate only anti-
choice Justices, it is clear that if con-
firmed, Judge Kavanaugh would con-
tinue to chip away at this fundamental
freedom.
The second reason it is clear Judge
Kavanaugh is not dedicated to pro-
tecting all Americans equally is, he has
repeatedly ruled against restrictions
on pollutants that threaten our health.
He has not been dedicated to pro-
tecting the air we breathe, the water
we drink, and the land we share.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.027 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6661
October 5, 2018
In a 2012 case, Judge Kavanaugh au-
thored an opinion that found the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency had ex-
ceeded its authority when the Agency
told upwind States to, literally, stop
blowing smoke onto their downwind
neighbors. Then, in 2014, Judge
Kavanaugh objected to using the Clean
Air Act to establish programs to re-
duce mercury—a potent toxin that
harms developing brains—and green-
house gases.
Judge Kavanaugh’s narrow view of
the Clean Air Act could be extremely
harmful to our efforts in addressing cli-
mate change by regulating greenhouse
gases. Although the Act does not men-
tion greenhouse gases by name, the Su-
preme Court has held that the EPA
does have the power to regulate them.
In fact, the Court held that the act re-
quires the EPA to address any air pol-
lutants that are found to endanger
human health. I agree with the Su-
preme Court as do most Americans. An
April 2018 poll found that 75 percent of
Americans support even stricter limits
on smog.
Judge Kavanaugh claims to believe
what virtually every scientist tells us;
that manmade climate change is real,
and it is an enormous threat to our
planet and our health. Yet he still
seems to have a problem with allowing
the government to take action to pro-
tect us from new pollutants which
threaten our health.
At a time when President Trump is
attempting to backpedal on every com-
mitment our country has made toward
fighting global warming, it is more im-
perative than ever that we have a Su-
preme Court Justice who believes in
our collective right to protect and pre-
serve our planet.
President Trump is pulling out of the
Paris climate agreement. He is pulling
back the Clean Power Plan. He is look-
ing for ways to force utilities to keep
expensive coal plants online, a move
that would cost Americans billions of
dollars in increased electricity bills.
All of these moves will hurt the envi-
ronment and harm the health of the
American people, and in each case,
Judge Kavanaugh’s record shows he is
likely to act as an enabler.
The third area in which Judge
Kavanaugh has demonstrated that he
is likely to serve the interests of a far-
right partisan agenda rather than the
interests of our democracy is with re-
gard to voting rights.
A judge who upholds a State law that
makes it harder for minorities and low-
income people to vote is not someone
who is going to be dedicated to pro-
tecting our most fundamental demo-
cratic right—the right to vote. If Judge
Kavanaugh is confirmed to the Su-
preme Court, there is no doubt he will
help his friends in far-right special in-
terest groups—the same groups that
recommended his nomination in the
first place—to continue their coordi-
nated campaign to make it harder for
millions of Americans to vote.
These groups know they can count on
Judge Kavanaugh to uphold laws that
make it harder rather than easier for
people to vote. These groups have
helped Republican-controlled State
legislatures pass laws that are designed
to create obstacles at every step of the
voting process, making it more dif-
ficult to register to vote, to cast your
ballot, and to have your vote counted
equally.
As a judge on the DC Circuit Court of
Appeals, Judge Kavanaugh has a record
of supporting these laws, including
laws that perpetuate voting discrimi-
nation, particularly against commu-
nities of color. In 2012, he wrote an
opinion for a three-judge panel that
upheld South Carolina’s stringent
voter ID law even though the Depart-
ment of Justice had determined the
law would violate the Voting Rights
Act of 1965.
I am proud to represent the State
with the highest voter turnout in the
Nation. Minnesotans understand that
when the right to vote is restricted, it
undermines the very foundation of our
democracy. Our voting laws reflect our
beliefs about who should have a voice
in this country, and I am profoundly
concerned that his record shows that
Judge Kavanaugh will allow States to
pass laws that will make it harder for
communities of color and low-income
people to make their voices heard.
Minnesotans and all Americans de-
serve a Supreme Court Justice who is
committed to making our democracy
more representative so we remain a
government for the people and not just
some of the people, and it is clear
Judge Kavanaugh would not be that
Justice.
Judge Kavanaugh’s record as a judge
on the DC Circuit Court of Appeals and
the process that led to his nomination
were enough to convince me that he
should not be elevated to the Supreme
Court. His decisions and opinions dem-
onstrate that he should not be en-
trusted with protecting the hard-won
rights and freedoms of all Americans.
It is troubling enough that Judge
Kavanaugh could be the deciding vote
on cases that affect every aspect of life
in America—cases that determine
whom you can marry, whether you can
access healthcare, or your rights in the
workplace. I am also extremely con-
cerned about Judge Kavanaugh’s com-
mitment to fulfilling the other sacred
responsibility of our Supreme Court—
to be a check against legislative and
executive overreach as a coequal
branch of our government.
The very design of our system of con-
stitutional checks and balances dem-
onstrates that no one, not even our
elected leaders, is above the law. This
is a fundamental American principle,
but Judge Kavanaugh has a dan-
gerously expansive view of Executive
power that is well outside the main-
stream of current legal thought.
He has repeatedly argued that Presi-
dents, effectively, are above the law.
His writings and speeches suggest he
believes a sitting President cannot be
indicted or prosecuted. He has argued
that Presidents can only be inves-
tigated by Congress, which raises ques-
tions about his views of the constitu-
tionality of the ongoing Mueller inves-
tigation. Perhaps what is the most
troubling is, he has claimed Presidents
don’t have to enforce laws they believe
are unconstitutional.
Kavanaugh’s expansive views of the
limits of Executive power suggest he
would abdicate the solemn responsi-
bility of the Court to both hold the ex-
ecutive branch accountable to its con-
stitutional duties and to prevent it
from engaging in constitutional ex-
cesses.
The need for the other branches of
government to be a strong check
against an errant executive has, argu-
ably, never been greater. Yet during
his confirmation process, Judge
Kavanaugh refused to answer even the
most basic questions about his views
on Executive power and accountability.
He also refused to answer Senators’
questions about topics like whether he
believes a President can be required to
respond to a subpoena or whether a
President can pardon himself or pardon
others in exchange for their silence.
It is easy to see why President
Trump would want a Supreme Court
nominee who believes a President is
above the law. It is not easy to see how
this body can consider confirming him
without learning more about whether
he is prepared to help the Court fulfill
its duty as an independent, coequal
branch of government.
For all of these reasons, I believe
Judge Kavanaugh’s jurisprudence and
scholarship provide a more than suffi-
cient basis for opposing his nomina-
tion.
Now I turn to the Senate Judiciary
Committee hearings last Thursday.
I was grateful for Dr. Blasey Ford’s
powerful testimony before the Senate
Judiciary Committee and to the Amer-
ican public. Since her testimony, my
office has received dozens of letters
from survivors of sexual assault, some
of whom are telling their stories for
the first time. In reading these letters,
I have been heartbroken by their trau-
ma and pain, which we know is suffered
by too many in this country. Many of
these survivors were victimized by peo-
ple they knew and trusted. Some were
too young to have words to even de-
scribe their assaults. Some tried to
come forward and report their abuses
but gave up when they faced doubt and
shame and suspicion from those who
should have helped but didn’t. All of
them deserve to have their stories
taken seriously and to be fully inves-
tigated.
So I want to acknowledge that this is
an important, historic moment—one
that shows us the cultural forces that
seek to shame and silence survivors of
sexual violence are shifting and that
survivors and those who love them and
those who stand with them are watch-
ing this process very carefully.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.029 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6662 October 5, 2018
In stark contrast to the clarity and
conviction of Dr. Blasey Ford’s testi-
mony, to me, Judge Kavanaugh’s per-
formance raised deep questions about
his temperament and credibility. Judge
Kavanaugh showed us he has an injudi-
cious temperament, a powerful sense of
entitlement, and a partisan perspective
that was right out there for everyone
to see. He showed us who he is—and I
believe him—and I firmly believe these
characteristics disqualify him from
elevation to the Supreme Court.
Judge Kavanaugh showed us he
thinks his professional qualifications
exempt him from personal scrutiny,
but an appointment to the Supreme
Court requires more than a pristine
legal resume; it requires a strength of
character, which we now know from his
own testimony that Judge Kavanaugh
does not possess.
His impulse, when challenged, is to
lash out with conspiratorial, partisan
invective—unbecoming of any nominee
to the Federal Bench. His behavior,
which, incidentally, he would never
allow from a litigant in his own court-
room, was angry, disrespectful, even
ranting.
I was particularly struck by the dis-
respect he showed to my good col-
league and friend, the senior Senator
from Minnesota, AMY KLOBUCHAR.
When she asked Judge Kavanaugh
about his history with alcohol, he be-
came defensive; refused to answer her
question; and actually turned the ques-
tion back at her. To my mind, this
showed a lack of respect not just for
Senator KLOBUCHAR but for the whole
Senate and our constitutional duty to
provide advice and consent to the
President’s nominees.
I think all of my colleagues should be
deeply disturbed by the nominee’s
angry and disrespectful behavior. I
urge all of my colleagues to ask them-
selves whether they believe Judge
Kavanaugh possesses the steady, sen-
sible temperament we should expect
from all of our Federal judges but,
most especially, from those on the
highest Court in the land. I believe
Judge Kavanaugh showed us to be in-
capable of being an impartial and non-
partisan judge when he said he holds
Democrats responsible for an ‘‘orches-
trated political hit.’’
The Framers designed the Supreme
Court to be above the partisan fray. In
his testimony on Thursday, Judge
Kavanaugh abandoned any pretense
that he could live up to his own de-
scription of a good judge, one that is
‘‘an umpire—a neutral and impartial
arbiter who favors no litigant or pol-
icy.’’
In his initial testimony before the
Judiciary Committee, Kavanaugh
warned:
The Supreme Court must never, never be
viewed as a partisan institution. The justices
on the Supreme Court do not sit on opposite
sides of an aisle.
If this body elevates Judge
Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court after
his nakedly partisan diatribe on Thurs-
day, how can the American people be-
lieve the Court’s decisions are any-
thing other than arbitrary and par-
tisan, and the work of ideologues?
Judge Kavanaugh’s shocking behavior
last Thursday bears directly on the le-
gitimacy of the Supreme Court—our
third coequal branch of government.
Over the next few years, the Supreme
Court will be called upon to decide im-
portant legal questions that will affect
the lives of all Americans. Given Judge
Kavanaugh’s performance last Thurs-
day, the American people will have to
wonder: Does Justice Kavanaugh see
the Supreme Court as the ultimate
venue for providing justice or as a tool
for advancing and securing a partisan
agenda?
Not only did Judge Kavanaugh’s per-
formance last Thursday give us reason
to doubt whether he has the necessary
judicial temperament to serve on the
Supreme Court, but his sworn testi-
mony also raised deep questions about
his credibility.
Judge Kavanaugh showed us that he
is willing to be misleading and evasive
when it serves his interests and when
he thinks he will be protected from the
consequences of those lies.
When questioned by my colleagues
Senator KLOBUCHAR and Senator
WHITEHOUSE, Judge Kavanaugh pro-
vided answers that were obviously dis-
ingenuous, if he answered at all. I am
concerned that the way he character-
ized his behavior during his high school
years was less than fully truthful. His
apparent lack of candor with the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee should be
deeply concerning to all of us in the
Senate and to the American public.
Unfortunately, I am not permitted to
speak publicly about the details of the
FBI’s supplemental background inves-
tigation of Judge Kavanaugh, but after
reviewing these materials, I have even
deeper concerns about Judge
Kavanaugh’s lack of candor. Frankly,
the materials raise more questions
than they answer. That is part of why
I believe the supplemental investiga-
tion was woefully inadequate.
Some of my colleagues have been
saying that this is not a criminal trial
but a job interview. I agree that Judge
Kavanaugh is not on trial here, but
this isn’t any regular job interview ei-
ther.
The confirmation process allows for
the Senate to determine whether Judge
Kavanaugh deserves the public’s faith
as he asks to be entrusted with safe-
guarding our constitutional and human
rights. He is asking for a lifetime ap-
pointment that will allow him to affect
the lives and freedoms of a whole gen-
eration of Americans. I believe Judge
Kavanaugh’s record and his character
preclude him from being worthy of that
public faith.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
opposing Judge Kavanaugh’s nomina-
tion to the Supreme Court.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PAUL). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to
express my strong opposition to the
nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh
to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy as
an Associate Justice on the U.S. Su-
preme Court.
I opposed Judge Kavanaugh’s nomi-
nation to his current seat on the DC
Circuit because I had serious concerns
about his partisan history, expansive
view of Presidential power, and his
lack of candor about his work in the
Bush White House during his testi-
mony before the Senate Judiciary
Committee. Judge Kavanaugh’s work
on the DC Circuit demonstrated that I
was right to be concerned about his
view that the President is above the
law. I intend to discuss his jurispru-
dence in a moment, but first it is nec-
essary to list just how many ways in
which this process has revealed that
Judge Kavanaugh lacks the tempera-
ment to serve as a Justice of the Su-
preme Court.
He began this process by continuing
to stonewall, and perhaps even mislead,
Senators about his career as a political
operative and partisan lawyer in the
Bush Administration. He dissembled
when asked basic questions about his
approach to the law—a tactic we have
come to expect from nominees who
have been selected and vetted by far-
right interest groups. Yet when Dr.
Christine Blasey Ford, Deborah Rami-
rez, and others came forward with seri-
ous and credible allegations of sexual
assault against him, this body saw the
real Judge Kavanaugh. He emerged at
his second hearing combative, bla-
tantly partisan, disrespectful, evasive,
and in no way reassuring that he has
told the truth to this body and the
American people. I will discuss these in
turn, but the bottom line is this: Judge
Kavanaugh is unqualified for a seat on
the Supreme Court because he lacks
the basic qualities and judgment for a
position that could affect Americans’
everyday lives for generations to come.
The American people are watching
this debate with serious, real-world
concerns about what a Justice
Kavanaugh would mean for them. They
are worried that they could wake up
someday soon to news that a conserv-
ative 5-to-4 majority on the Court has
stripped them of their health insur-
ance, abolished their right to privacy
and control over their reproductive
health, or revoked their right to marry
whomever they choose. They see in-
equality of historic proportions—with
the top 1 percent now earning more
than the bottom 50 percent combined,
according to the World Inequality Re-
port—and a Supreme Court that con-
tinues to overturn laws that were en-
acted to prevent corporations and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.031 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6663
October 5, 2018
wealthy individuals from using their
money to rig the political system.
It is abundantly clear, given Judge
Kavanaugh’s selection by special inter-
est groups and the mad rush to confirm
him at all costs, that powerful inter-
ests are counting on him to further
these trends, which point to a future in
which political power will be directly
tied to wealth and status. Worse yet,
given that we still don’t know the
whole truth about the allegations
against Judge Kavanaugh, continuing
this rush to place him on the Court
sends a terrible message to survivors of
sexual assault that accountability for
these crimes depends on the extent to
which the accused person serves the in-
terests of the powerful.
The American people deserve better
when it comes to this body’s obligation
to advise and consent on the next Su-
preme Court Justice, and the majority
has failed in that obligation time and
again in the course of this confirma-
tion process.
When my Democratic colleagues and
I expressed concerns about whether a
President under such serious criminal
investigations should appoint—prior to
seeing the investigative process thor-
ough and completed to the end—a Su-
preme Court Justice who likely could
be called to rule on critical matters in
a case against the President and his
campaign, the majority ignored us.
When we demanded that Judge
Kavanaugh’s hearing follow the stand-
ard practice for Supreme Court nomi-
nees—providing Senators and the pub-
lic alike with access to the nominee’s
full record of public service through
appropriate document disclosures from
the National Archives—the majority
fast-tracked Judge Kavanaugh’s hear-
ing before the National Archives could
process the records from his work in
the Bush White House. In place of the
appropriate process, the majority en-
listed a private Republican lawyer to
curate a small subset of records for
Senators to review, and even that sub-
set was subject to an assertion of
‘‘committee confidentiality,’’ meaning
Senators were barred from sharing
anything with the public that they
may have learned about Judge
Kavanaugh. Thousands more records
were withheld under a dubious asser-
tion of executive privilege. Even given
the small number of Republican-se-
lected records that had been made
available to this body, my Democratic
colleagues on the Judiciary Committee
uncovered troubling inconsistencies
that called into question whether
Judge Kavanaugh had been truthful in
his Senate testimony.
No other nominee for the Supreme
Court would get away with this. Why is
the majority giving this free pass to
Judge Kavanaugh? Why does he deserve
to shield his record when no other
member of the Supreme Court received
such treatment? Why must his docu-
ments—records of taxpayer-funded pub-
lic service—be controlled by a private
Republican attorney instead of the Na-
tional Archives like they are for every
other man and woman who currently
sits on the Supreme Court? Just what
is it about Judge Kavanaugh that has
rendered stalwart defenders of the Sen-
ate’s power to review nominees, includ-
ing those on the Judiciary Committee,
to have such a profound about-face?
No one is entitled to a lifetime ap-
pointment to the Supreme Court. Yet
the majority has treated this job like
the personal property of Judge
Kavanaugh ever since the President an-
nounced his nomination.
My Republican colleagues have said a
great deal about the importance of pre-
serving a fair process for the consider-
ation of the Supreme Court nominees.
Some of these arguments are simply
outrageous. In the recent past, Demo-
crats and the majority worked on a bi-
partisan basis to obtain nearly all rel-
evant documents from then-Solicitor
General Kagan’s work in the White
House before holding a vote on her
nomination to the Supreme Court.
Today, we are set to vote on Judge
Kavanaugh with roughly 90 percent of
his record still kept secret. Yes, in the
recent past, Democrats made the dif-
ficult choice to end Republicans’ his-
torically unprecedented obstruction of
hundreds of President Obama’s judicial
nominees by eliminating the 60-vote
threshold for judicial nominees, except
to the Supreme Court of the United
States. Democrats recognized that the
Supreme Court is one of the most im-
portant institutions in this country,
that it operates as the effective check
on both the legislature and the execu-
tive branches, that it is the ultimate
interpreter of the Constitution of the
United States, and that in order to
have members on that Court who are
consistent with the Constitution and
thoroughly accountable to the Amer-
ican people, not special interests, a
simple majority to get to the Court is
inadequate. This process demonstrates
that.
Last year, they broke historical
precedent and basic decency by deny-
ing Chief Judge Merrick Garland so
much as a meeting or a hearing on his
Supreme Court nomination. Again, for
over a year, the Republican majority
refused to consider the nomination of
Judge Garland to the Supreme Court,
and now they insist we have to move
expeditiously to fill this gap, that it is
so critical that we can’t wait 2 weeks,
3 weeks, or 4 weeks for a thorough in-
vestigation. We have to do it now. But
we didn’t have to do it when President
Obama submitted, pursuant to the Con-
stitution, the nomination of Judge
Garland.
Once Judge Gorsuch was presented to
us, the Republicans abandoned the 60-
vote threshold, and at every turn, Re-
publicans have, in my view, escalated
these so-called judicial wars, and this
rush to confirm Judge Kavanaugh, de-
spite the allegations against him,
brings us closer than ever to a crisis of
confidence in the Court.
The need for more time and more an-
swers with regard to Judge
Kavanaugh’s record have become over-
whelming since Dr. Ford, Deborah Ra-
mirez, and others came forward. These
women have put aside their privacy,
professional lives, and the safety and
security of their families in order to
bring to light their allegations against
Judge Kavanaugh. Regardless of how
one feels about the truth of their
claims, they have been met with treat-
ment that should be beneath us as a
nation. They have been mocked and at-
tacked in disgraceful and sexist terms
by public figures who should know bet-
ter, including the President himself.
They have been called liars, had their
motives questioned, and had their pri-
vate lives picked apart on the national
stage.
The Judiciary Committee has now
had the opportunity to hear from Dr.
Ford, and the FBI has conducted a lim-
ited background check on some of the
allegations against Judge Kavanaugh,
but this process still doesn’t pass the
simple common sense test. If there is
no truth to these allegations, as the
nominee and our Republican colleagues
claim, why was it so difficult to agree
to an FBI investigation in the first
place? For that matter, what serious
investigation is forced to finish in less
than a week with limits on which leads
it can follow? What person, upon hear-
ing that a child or a relative of his or
her own had been harmed, would be
satisfied with such a short and appar-
ently outcome-driven process? What is
the majority hiding?
I will not parse the details of every
allegation against Judge Kavanaugh
here today, but I will say this to my
Republican colleagues: Look around
you. Our Nation is undergoing a his-
toric and long-overdue reckoning with
abuse of power, sexual harassment, and
sexual assault. It is regrettable that
the Supreme Court confirmation proc-
ess has once again become a forum for
the larger debate about these matters,
but there is no convenient way to reck-
on with longstanding and painful injus-
tice. This is the issue before us, and we
must face it. History will not look
kindly, if it looks at all, on those who
take the easy way out, using distrac-
tion, false equivalence, and personal
attacks to preserve a partisan win at
all costs.
Given the growing number of doubts
that this process has raised about
Judge Kavanaugh’s honesty and trust-
worthiness, he cannot begin to meet
the test that I have applied to every
Supreme Court nominee, regardless of
party, during my service in the Senate.
I have voted against nominees in the
past because I did not believe that
their jurisprudential records dem-
onstrated that they would use their
discretion to give meaning to the
promises of the Constitution. But
never before have I had to stand here
and oppose a nominee to the Supreme
Court for those very same reasons and
because I do not believe that he is
trustworthy. I regret that I must do so
now.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.033 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6664 October 5, 2018
When it comes to Supreme Court
Justices, character is a nonnegotiable
requirement. Supreme Court Justices
are expected to have a record of high
personal and professional achievement.
They are not supposed to be partisans
or politicians. They are given an awe-
some power for life. They can certainly
have flaws, but their relationship to
the truth and their willingness to avoid
the appearance of emotion are not up
for debate. To serve in judgment of 325
million of their fellow citizens, they
must be above the fray, particularly in
these difficult and divided times.
If Supreme Court decisions were sim-
ply a mechanical application of fore-
gone legal conclusions, then it
wouldn’t matter who sat on the Court.
Rather, a Justice’s power rests in the
discretion to choose among competing
and well-reasoned arguments to decide
how the promises of the Constitution
will apply for generations to come.
In order to support a Supreme Court
nominee, I must believe she or he will
use that discretion to give meaning to
the American tradition of equal justice
under law. This means strictly scruti-
nizing laws that obstruct and distort
the effective operation of government
and channels of political participation.
It means rejecting arbitrary abuse of
power and demanding the most compel-
ling justification for laws that single
out powerless, discrete, and insular mi-
nority groups for disfavored treatment
under the law.
When the Court has acted in accord-
ance with these principles, it has re-
solved issues of national concern that
threaten to tear the fabric of our Na-
tion apart, and has done so in a manner
that preserves the perception of impar-
tiality that is vital to our judicial in-
stitutions. The Court struck the final
blow against legal segregation. It safe-
guarded constitutional voting rights,
guaranteed Americans the power to
choose how to start their families, sep-
arated church and State for the mutual
benefit of both institutions, and even
ordered sitting Presidents to comply
with the law.
The snarling, conspiratorial partisan-
ship that Judge Kavanaugh displayed
at his second hearing was a far cry
from the historical principles that have
preserved the Court as an institution.
Without evidence, he blamed ‘‘the left’’
and ‘‘left-wing opposition groups’’ for
revelations about his past behavior,
calling it ‘‘a calculated and orches-
trated political hit.’’ He characterized
Dr. Ford and others as liars and
claimed that their desire to come for-
ward was simply ‘‘pent-up anger about
President Trump and the 2016 elec-
tion.’’
How many of the advocacy organiza-
tions that regularly try cases before
the Court fit his definition of ‘‘left-
wing opposition groups’’? How is any-
one supposed to believe that Justice
Kavanaugh would approach a politi-
cally charged case with an open mind
after this display?
I fear that some are willing to over-
look the clear defects in this nominee
and this confirmation process because
they want a Justice Kavanaugh to de-
liver long-desired legal victories for
partisan causes. President Trump has
clearly expressed his expectations for
his nominees to the Court and even
outsourced the vetting process to far-
right special interest groups. The goal
of this process is no mystery: a decisive
majority on the Supreme Court that
will eviscerate the underpinnings of
Roe v. Wade and undo the constitu-
tional right to privacy, as well as ex-
pand the Second Amendment to block
even commonsense gun safety laws.
Critically, the President also wants to
bring even more functions of govern-
ment solely under the control of the
White House so that he can quickly
and easily dismantle protections for
workers, the vulnerable, and the envi-
ronment.
This wish list is nothing new. It has
long been the agenda of groups like the
NRA and the Federalist Society to
take control of the Supreme Court and
accomplish from the Bench what they
cannot win from the ballot box. In
President Trump and this majority,
however, they have found their oppor-
tunity to radically change American
law for the few and the powerful.
I have no illusion about Judge
Kavanaugh’s familiarity with, and en-
thusiasm for, the partisan victories he
is expected to deliver for President
Trump and special interest groups as a
Justice. It is also difficult for me to
imagine that there would be such a
rush to put Judge Kavanaugh on the
Court if he were not a lifelong DC po-
litical operative and reliable partisan
and an architect of the conservative
legal movement, which is designed to
pack the Federal judiciary with out-
come-driven ideologues like him. He
has already amassed a body of work
that shows how he can and will deliver
for the movement that has groomed
him for this moment.
Judge Kavanaugh has demonstrated
a dangerously expansive view of Presi-
dential power. The President is not a
King, and this is because the Constitu-
tion establishes separation of powers
and a system of checks and balances to
ensure that no arm of government can
overpower the others.
The Framers recognized the par-
ticular danger of a Supreme Court
without judicial independence. In Fed-
eralist 78, Alexander Hamilton quoted
Montesquieu, saying that ‘‘there is no
liberty, if the power of judging be not
separated from the legislative and ex-
ecutive powers.’’ He added that ‘‘lib-
erty can have nothing to fear from the
judiciary alone, but would have every-
thing to fear from its union with either
of the other departments.’’
Based on his writings, I fear that a
Justice Kavanaugh is predisposed to
provide the deciding vote on the Presi-
dent’s agenda before cases against him
even reach the Supreme Court. For ex-
ample, the Supreme Court has never
had to decide whether a sitting Presi-
dent can be prosecuted for Federal
crimes. It is perhaps more important
now than ever in our history to ensure
that a nominee to the Court can ap-
proach questions of Presidential ac-
countability with independence and an
open mind. Judge Kavanaugh cannot
seriously claim to have either on this
issue.
As a veteran of the Starr investiga-
tion into the Clinton White House,
Judge Kavanaugh understandably has
strong feelings on the issues of civil
and criminal prosecutions of sitting
Presidents. In 1998, Kavanaugh au-
thored a law review article discussing a
now-defunct independent counsel stat-
ute in detail and recommending
changes to the statutory scheme. He
argued there that Congress should pass
a law prohibiting the indictment of a
sitting President until after the Presi-
dent’s term in office. But he made it
clear at several points that he believes
such a law would codify what to him is
already plain in the Constitution—that
a President is above our criminal law
while he holds office.
His views about Presidential ac-
countability did not evolve over time,
as seen in the various ways he contin-
ued to share his views over the years.
In 1999, he told a reporter that he
doubted whether the Supreme Court
got it right in United States v. Nixon,
the landmark case that held the Presi-
dent could not always use Executive
privilege to escape a subpoena to turn
over records in a criminal case. For
those who lived through Watergate, it
was the Supreme Court’s decision that
I think, more than anything else, pre-
served the stability of the Union and
the power of the Constitution over par-
tisan politics. It led to President Nix-
on’s resignation. It also convincingly
showed that the Court could take a de-
cision seriously with respect to the
Constitution without considering the
political effects.
Justice Kavanaugh believes they
were wrong, that President Nixon
should have been allowed to defy the
Court, defy the country, and maintain
secret the tapes of his discussions in
the White House that ultimately led to
his resignation.
In 2008, as a judge on the DC Circuit,
Kavanaugh published another article
suggesting policies to improve the
functioning of the Federal Govern-
ment, which reiterated his support for
a law to defer all civil and criminal
cases against the President while the
President holds office.
To be clear, lawyers and legal aca-
demics have debated these issues of
Presidential power and accountability
from the founding of the Republic. This
debate is particularly relevant in light
of how easily a governing majority of
the President’s party can crush con-
gressional efforts to investigate
wrongdoings by the President and his
administration. Judge Kavanaugh has
every right to publish his thoughts for
legal academia, but he cannot have it
both ways. He cannot spend 20 years ar-
guing that the Constitution forecloses
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.034 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6665
October 5, 2018
criminal investigations of a sitting
President and claim now that he ap-
proaches the issue with an open mind.
We may soon need clear answers from
the Court about whether a President
can pardon himself and whether he can
be subpoenaed, indicted, or otherwise
held to account for wrongdoing. If such
a case were to rise to the Supreme
Court, it would be gravely damaging to
the Court as an institution if the
American people were to believe that
the President had already secured the
votes he needed to win because of his
judicial appointments.
It is also clear that Judge Kavanaugh
comes to this nomination with his
mind made up to deliver other impor-
tant victories for the President and
powerful corporate interests at the ex-
pense of Federal agency autonomy and
independence.
Judge Kavanaugh spoke 2 years ago
on a panel before a conservative special
interest group where he was asked if he
could think of a case that deserves to
be overturned. After some hesitation,
he answered that he would ‘‘put the
final nail in the coffin’’ of Morrison v.
Olson, which upheld the constitu-
tionality of an independent counsel
who could be fired only ‘‘for cause’’ by
the President.
This deserves consideration. When
given the chance to name any case he
would overturn, Judge Kavanaugh did
not think to name any of the most
egregious cases from our early history
as a nation, such as the now-over-
turned Korematsu decision, which
upheld Japanese internment, or Buck
v. Bell, which upheld compulsory steri-
lization of the intellectually disabled.
Instead, Judge Kavanaugh made it
clear that he would strip Congress of
its constitutional authority to protect
apolitical public officials, like Special
Counsel Mueller, from arbitrary inter-
ference and firing by the President.
Just this year, Judge Kavanaugh
showed that he was serious. In PHH
Corporation v. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, the full DC Circuit
upheld the constitutionality of the
statute creating the CFPB and pro-
viding that its independent Director
could be removed by the President only
for cause.
In his scathing dissent, Judge
Kavanaugh quoted at length from Jus-
tice Scalia’s dissent in Morrison v.
Olson and made it clear that he would
have placed the CFPB Director under
the thumb of the President. I believe it
is safe to assume he would have gone
even further in undermining the con-
sumer agency’s independence if he had
the power to overturn Morrison alto-
gether.
This is not the only area where a Jus-
tice Kavanaugh would deliver long-
sought-after victories for conservative
operatives and special interests. He has
also made clear that he would undercut
or even overturn the law of Chevron
deference. As this body discussed at
length in debate over Justice Gorsuch’s
nomination, the Chevron case stands
for the proposition that when someone
sues a Federal agency and a reasonable
person could read the statute at issue
in more than one way, the Court should
defer to the agency’s reasonable inter-
pretation of the law that the agency is
charged with enforcing. Put simply,
Chevron prevents big businesses that
are trying to escape regulation from
pouring millions into lawsuits to sec-
ond-guess and slow down every piece of
the rulemaking process that they don’t
like. Even Justice Scalia defended
Chevron as a reasonable check on judi-
cial activism. But like Judge Gorsuch,
Judge Kavanaugh has made it clear in
his academic writings that he would
overturn Chevron as we know it and
systematically tip the scales in favor
of well-funded challengers of regula-
tion.
In my view, such a major change in
the law would put our Nation on a path
back to the bad old days when compa-
nies could pollute the environment,
scam their customers, and discriminate
against their employees as long as they
could pay enough lawyers to get the
right judge when the Federal agency
sues. This would bring us one step clos-
er to the ‘‘deconstruction of the admin-
istrative state’’ that the Trump admin-
istration envisions and could severely
obstruct future administrations in
their efforts to protect consumers, the
environment, and those who need a
helping hand against the very power-
ful.
I would like to take a minute to re-
turn to the concept of judicial discre-
tion. As I discussed, I have evaluated
every nominee for the Supreme Court
during my time in this body based on
whether I believed the nominee would
have an open mind to be able to use his
or her discretion to promote equal jus-
tice under the law, and to safeguard
the powerless against the powerful.
Upon review of Justice Kavanaugh’s
opinions, I do not believe he would. He
has routinely sided with employers and
big business against workers, con-
sumers, and those seeking to hold pow-
erful interests to account.
Two of his notable opinions illustrate
the contrast between his treatment of
interests he favors and those he does
not.
The case of SeaWorld of Florida v.
Perez concerned a tragic incident at
the theme park in which a killer whale
grabbed its trainer, pulling her into the
water and killing her. This was not the
first trainer this whale had killed in
this way. The Department of Labor
sanctioned SeaWorld upon concluding
that the company knew about the dan-
ger this whale posed to trainers and
failed to take reasonable steps to less-
en the risk. A Federal district court af-
firmed this conclusion, as well as the
District of Columbia Circuit.
Judge Kavanaugh dissented. He ar-
gued that it was inappropriately ‘‘pa-
ternalistic’’ for the Federal Govern-
ment to regulate matters of workplace
safety for entertaining displays such as
killer whale exhibitions. To him, the
free market, rather than potentially
lifesaving workplace safety regulations
and standards, should decide how dan-
gerous is too dangerous for workers.
Compare this narrow view of a work-
er’s right to a safe workplace with
Judge Kavanaugh’s broad view of an
employer’s religious right to opt out of
regulations.
The case of Priests for Live v. HHS
concerned an attempt to broaden the
Supreme Court’s holding in the Hobby
Lobby case. In Hobby Lobby, a 5-to-4
majority of the Supreme Court held
that a closely held, for-profit corpora-
tion could refuse to comply with the
Affordable Care Act’s mandate that
employers provide health coverage, in-
cluding contraceptives, on grounds
that doing so would conflict with the
corporation’s purported religious
rights under the Religious Freedom
Restoration Act, or RFRA.
In Priests for Life, a religious non-
profit corporation similarly objected to
providing contraceptives to its employ-
ees on religious grounds but also ob-
jected to an accommodation provided
under Affordable Care Act regulations
specifically for religious nonprofits.
Under the accommodation, the organi-
zation could file a form that lodged a
faith-based objection to contraceptive
coverage, thereby permitting its em-
ployees to access coverage through al-
ternative means, and not through the
company directly. Priests for Life sued
to invalidate even this alternative,
claiming that filing the faith-based ob-
jection was a religious burden because
it caused its employees to receive con-
traceptive coverage. The DC Circuit de-
cided against the organization because
the organization was wrong, strictly as
a matter of law, that the filing of the
form caused a change in the employees’
access to coverage.
Judge Kavanaugh dissented, arguing
that it should not matter whether a
nonprofit’s religious objections were
strictly correct as a matter of law in
order for the objection to excuse it
from complying with the law. If the
Supreme Court were to adopt this view,
it would open the door to dangerous
possibilities. In addition to nonprofits,
for-profit corporations like Hobby
Lobby and others could use religious
objections to excuse themselves from
an untold number of Federal laws, ig-
noring, in the process, the religious
and practical needs of the employees—
the men and women of conscience who
work there and the consumers who
would suffer the consequences.
Contrasting these two cases—one
showing Kavanaugh’s narrow view of
an employee’s right to a safe work-
place, the other demonstrating his
troublingly broad view of an employ-
er’s right to opt out of following the
law—it became clear to me that Judge
Kavanaugh would use his discretion as
a Supreme Court Justice to expand the
rights of the powerful at the expense of
everyone else.
Supreme Court Justices hold extraor-
dinary positions of authority in our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.035 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6666 October 5, 2018
constitutional system because they are
the only ones with the power to decide
that the governing majority—as well
as prior Justices on the Court—got it
wrong. The Constitution guarantees
every American certain rights that are
beyond the reach of the President or a
simple majority of Congress to change
because the popular majority cannot
always be trusted to protect the inter-
ests of the minority, particularly when
that minority includes the most power-
less, alienated, and derided among us.
The Supreme Court’s work is not
automatic. It is not an assembly line.
The men and women who sit on the
Court must use their values and experi-
ence in order to reach the conclusions
that determine how the Constitution
applies to our daily lives. I read Judge
Kavanaugh’s legal record to show that
he would advance a dangerous partisan
agenda from the bench. Some may dis-
agree with that conclusion, but the
fact of the matter is that the majority
is advancing Judge Kavanaugh’s nomi-
nation in the absence of critical facts
that go directly to his character and
values.
A full and fair investigation—one
without predetermined limits—could
clear Justice Kavanaugh’s name or it
could cause him further trouble. But if
the majority proceeds now, and he is
confirmed, the shadow of doubt will al-
ways linger over his position, over the
Court, and over the U.S. Senate. Amer-
icans will wonder why this nomination
was rushed, and the obvious conclusion
will be that it served the interests of
partisan politics. Rightly or wrongly,
that impression will further harden the
cynicism and tribalism of those who
are inclined to believe the system is
rigged. That doubt in the fundamental
fairness and integrity of our govern-
ment is contagious, and our whole Na-
tion suffers as it spreads. I believe we
should stop this and show the Amer-
ican people that facts matter and that
character matters.
Before I yield the floor, I would like
to say one more thing to my col-
leagues. This process, and the major-
ity’s elimination of the 60-vote thresh-
old for the Supreme Court to confirm
Justice Gorsuch last year, is now the
precedent for future Supreme Court
nominations. Democratic Members
should expect nothing more from the
Republican majority. Every Senator
should think long and hard if they are
prepared for what will come next as a
result of this dissolution of the Senate
rules that historically preserved the in-
stitutions of the Senate as well as the
Court.
The supermajority requirement for
the confirmation of a Supreme Court
Justice was a vital backstop against
the kinds of displays we have witnessed
in the past few weeks. That is why
Democrats kept the 60-vote require-
ment in place when they were forced by
a Republican blockade of lower court
judges to fill a whole host of judicial
vacancies with nominees who had
cleared committee for district and cir-
cuit courts. Now, with a simple major-
ity threshold, any party in power can
pack the Supreme Court on party-line
votes with nominees like Judge
Kavanaugh, who otherwise could never
rise to the highest Court of the land.
I would also note that there is no
longer any obligation for a nominee to
disclose all of his or her records of
prior service, nor is there a need to
hold fair or impartial hearings. FBI
background checks need not be any-
thing more than a mere formality, and
nominees have a free hand to appear in
campaign-style commercials, dis-
respect the Senate, and disregard tradi-
tions of decorum, so long as they put
on a show that plays well with the
President and the majority. After all,
there is no longer any need for bipar-
tisan consensus for a Justice of the Su-
preme Court.
I have served in this body for over 20
years. I have not been here for all of
the so-called judicial wars, supposedly
beginning with the nomination of
Judge Bork, who, I will remind every-
one, was defeated on a strong bipar-
tisan vote, but I have been here for
enough of the deterioration of this
process to know there is blame on both
sides. Democrats in this body have
been aggressive when they were in
power, but I would also add that schol-
arly research of many has documented
that Republicans always found another
way to escalate things each more, re-
sulting in the position in which we now
find ourselves.
Without some major change on the
part of the majority, I hope there is no
illusion among my colleagues that
what we have endured over the last few
weeks is anything but the beginning of
what is to come. I stand ready—and I
think many of my colleagues on the
other side stand ready—to search for a
bipartisan solution and return to a
path in which all of us—at least the
vast majority of the Senate—have
overwhelming confidence in the ability
and the dedication of a nominee to the
Supreme Court under the Constitution
of the United States.
With that, I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I
come to the floor to speak in opposi-
tion to the nomination of Judge
Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.
I want to make a few quick points as
we conclude this debate today, and
then I want to speak to the people
watching who may not believe what
the Senate could be headed toward
today—who are shocked and angry,
frustrated and hurt.
First and foremost, I believe Dr.
Ford. I believe her when she shared her
experience of being assaulted by Judge
Kavanaugh. I believe her because of
what she said, and she remembered
with 100 percent certainty.
I believe her despite what some Re-
publicans are trying to use to tear her
down because I know trauma experts
tell us survivors may not remember
every single detail of these events.
I believe Republican leaders and
President Trump did everything they
could to hide the facts and rush this
through because they were afraid of
what a full investigation would show,
and I believe it is simply wrong to rush
to a finish on this confirmation based
on that alone.
I also believe that what we saw of
Judge Kavanaugh’s temperament in
the hearing last week—his bitter par-
tisanship, his rage, his disrespect—was
absolutely disqualifying as well and
will undermine the Supreme Court and
erode trust in the decisions they make.
I believe the lack of credibility and
honesty he demonstrated in his hear-
ings, which I and my colleagues have
spoken about at great length, is abso-
lutely disqualifying as well, and this
isn’t just me saying this. We are hear-
ing an unprecedented outcry on this
particular point from lawyers and
judges and former clerks and the reli-
gious community, and even Supreme
Court Justice Stevens. Even setting
aside those issues, before Dr. Ford’s al-
legations came out and before we saw
more of Judge Kavanaugh in those
hearings, I opposed his nomination be-
cause it was so clear he was picked by
President Trump for a few key reasons.
Specifically, he would overturn Roe
v. Wade and gut women’s healthcare;
he would gut healthcare reform and
end protections for patients with pre-
existing conditions; and he would pro-
tect President Trump with his disturb-
ingly expansive view on Presidential
power, which is particularly dangerous
when we have a President under inves-
tigation with members of his campaign
and administration going to jail and
facing indictments.
That is not all we know about him,
but we know those things, and to me
that was enough to make my decision.
So I do oppose Judge Kavanaugh, and I
hope we can do the right thing in the
Senate today.
I want to spend the rest of my few
minutes this morning making a dif-
ferent point and not just to my col-
leagues but to the people who are
watching from home and across the
country because I am very concerned
about the message Republican leaders
are sending today to women and girls
and survivors—the message they are
delivering on the Senate floor, at ral-
lies, through the press, and directly to
the people.
To Dr. Ford and Ms. Ramirez, and so
many other women, girls and sur-
vivors, these Republicans are saying
your voices don’t matter. Your experi-
ences, your trauma, your pain, your
heartache, your anger—none of that
matters.
Their message is: We don’t have to
listen. We don’t have to care. Sit down.
Be quiet. They are sending the message
that if you are a woman who was at-
tacked, if you are a survivor, then your
experience is just one more ‘‘hiccup’’ to
‘‘plow right through’’ on the path to
get what they want; that if you come
forward with your experience, you will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.036 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6667
October 5, 2018
be told you are just ‘‘mixed up,’’
wrong, lying, or worse.
They are sending a message that you
will be asked why you didn’t come for-
ward sooner, what you wore, how much
you had to drink, what medication you
were taking, if you had any history of
mental issues, how you got to the
party, how you got home; that you will
be mocked and undermined, told to
‘‘grow up’’ and waved away, and that is
just if they can’t find a way to sweep
you aside and ignore you altogether.
They are sending a message that
when it comes to a man who has gone
to prestigious schools, who has all the
connections, who has spent his entire
life setting himself up for this moment,
it is his experience that matters, his
pain that matters, his future that mat-
ters, not yours.
They aren’t just sending a message
to women and girls and survivors, they
are sending a message to men and boys,
too, and that is what frightens me just
as much. They are sending a message
to them that if they attack women, if
they hurt people, they are going to be
fine; that they may hear that this kind
of behavior is wrong, that it is not ac-
ceptable, but don’t worry, nothing will
actually happen to them if they do it.
They can grab women without their
consent and brag about it, they can
sexually assault women and laugh
about it, and they are probably going
to even be fine. They can even grow up
to be President of the United States or
a Justice on the Supreme Court.
That is absolutely wrong.
So I want to send a very different
message to women, girls, and sur-
vivors: Your voices do matter. Your ex-
periences do matter. There are a whole
lot of people who are listening to you,
who do hear you, who do believe you.
Please, please do not give up and do
not stay quiet because no matter what
happens today, however this vote goes,
your voices are making a difference,
maybe not to those Republicans mock-
ing Dr. Ford—they may not want to
hear what you have to say—and maybe
not to President Trump, but with every
story that comes out, every new voice
that breaks the silence, we make
progress. Every father and mother who
learns what happened to their daughter
or son all of those years ago that they
had never shared before, every son and
daughter who hears from their mom
and dad about abuse or attacks they
faced and never talked about, everyone
who hears from a friend, who listens to
a coworker, it does make a difference.
We have seen that since the #MeToo
movement started more and more.
More and more over these past few
weeks, stories came out helping people
understand how pervasive this is, how
this kind of violence is something
women have been putting up with for
ages, in silence, unheard, seemingly in-
evitable, a wall placed in front of every
girl and woman in this country and
how, as more and more people have so
bravely spoken up, cracks have begun
to appear in that wall.
There are some cracks in how people
see the world, people who may have
never understood before, who may have
never seen the perspective they are
learning about more and more now,
some cracks in how companies and in-
stitutions need to respond, which may
have never felt that pressure before.
There are some cracks in how men and
boys are acting, hearing more and
more that this is not OK. It cannot be
accepted. It will not be accepted.
Cracks, cracks, and cracks, but clear-
ly today we see the wall still stands.
If Judge Kavanaugh is confirmed, de-
spite all of the outcry and all of the
work done, there will be a lot of people
who are angry and hurt. I will be one of
them. There will be frustration. There
will be tears. I will be joining in them.
But there will also be a sense that
nothing we can do matters; that if
someone like Judge Kavanaugh can get
a seat on the Supreme Court, we should
just give up; that we can’t make a dif-
ference, we can’t matter. That, I will
not be a part of.
Here is the message I want to send
today: Change is not easy. It never is.
We cannot give up the fight, and we
cannot be discouraged. My vision, my
fight, my passion is to live in a country
where my granddaughters can walk
down the street, go to a party, live
their lives, not live in fear but be treat-
ed with respect.
I want to live in a country where my
granddaughters can go into a job inter-
view and be judged based on what they
can do, not on how they look. I want to
live in a country where you can suc-
ceed no matter where you were born,
what you looked like, or whom you
love; if you work hard and treat others
right, where you don’t have to go to
prestigious schools and know powerful
people and make the best political con-
nections and go to the right parties. I
want to live in a country where if you
do all of those things and know all of
those people but hurt others and treat
people with disrespect, you will pay the
price, you will face the consequences.
Clearly, we are not there yet, but I
do believe we are making progress. We
may not feel it every day, and today is
a day when it is hard, but I believe, and
my message to everyone watching
right now is, don’t give up; don’t give
in; don’t think your voice doesn’t mat-
ter.
When the Senate failed Anita Hill
and confirmed Justice Thomas in 1981,
I got mad. I decided to run for the Sen-
ate. I wouldn’t let anyone tell me I had
no shot, and I won—and I see that
story repeated over and over. People
get angry. They start talking about it.
They organize it, and sometimes they
face their past, but they make a dif-
ference. They put more cracks into
that wall, but when I hear people give
up hope, when they tell me they are
ending their fight because they think
what they do doesn’t matter, I know I
am hearing from someone who isn’t
going to make a difference.
I think of a line I remind myself of
all the time: If someone tells you, you
can’t make a difference, it is usually
because they are afraid that you will.
They are afraid that you will because
it is true. They are petrified because
they do know your voice matters—
whatever you may think, whatever
they may say.
So whatever happens today, I am
going to get up tomorrow, and I am
going to keep fighting. I am going to
keep fighting for the kind of country I
want to live in, for the country I want
for my granddaughters, for all of our
granddaughters and all of our
grandsons—a country where someone
like Dr. Ford is believed, where she is
not attacked; where someone like
Judge Kavanaugh doesn’t get rushed to
the highest Court in the land. I really
hope everyone who stood up and spoke
out, who is motivated by Dr. Ford and
so many others, I hope you are all with
me today, tomorrow, and for the fight
ahead.
So I urge my colleagues to stand
with us, to vote no today, and to keep
working with us tomorrow.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Michigan
Mr. PETERS. Madam President, our
Nation has seen some deeply con-
cerning trends in recent decades—in-
creased polarization, flat wages for
workers, and a growing tribal mindset
that makes it increasingly difficult for
people to trust each other and our pub-
lic institutions. We are also seeing a
partisan divide that is growing strong-
er and wider by the day.
For example, 60 years ago, about 4
percent of Americans said that they
would be seriously disappointed if their
son or daughter married someone from
the opposite political party. Today, it
is almost half.
We are also seeing a growing eco-
nomic divide. Fifty years ago, 9 out of
10 30-year-olds in America were better
off than their parents at the same age.
In 2010, only half were. It feels like the
bonds that make us a cohesive society
are fraying and that life in the United
States is growing more unfair for so
many Americans. Bringing our country
back together and strengthening our
bonds with each other will not be an
easy task, but, without question, the
Supreme Court has an unparalleled
ability either to move our society for-
ward or to pull us further apart.
Unanimous opinions by the Supreme
Court to strike down segregation in
public schools, to affirm the right of
criminal defendants to an attorney,
and to rein in the use of executive
privilege by President Nixon show the
ability of ideologically diverse judges
to agree on what is fair and what is
right, but the Supreme Court as an in-
stitution is far, far from infallible.
The same institution that just 3
years ago made marriage equality the
law of the land also upheld the intern-
ment of American citizens of Japanese
dissent while our parents fought to lib-
erate prisoners held in German con-
centration camps across the Atlantic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.037 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6668 October 5, 2018
Ocean. The same institution that gave
American women the right to make de-
cisions about their own reproductive
health in Roe v. Wade denied citizen-
ship to African American slaves in the
shameful Dred Scott decision.
Some of my colleagues have said
they have confidence that Judge
Kavanaugh believes in Roe v. Wade and
that it is the settled law. I hope they
are right, but I seriously doubt it. I
think that, if confirmed, Judge
Kavanaugh will spearhead the contin-
ued erosion of rights for American
women, and if given the chance, he will
vote to overturn this settled precedent.
Lots of talk in Washington about the
Supreme Court centers on precedent,
power, or procedure, but I would argue
that voting for a Supreme Court nomi-
nee is fundamentally about people. In
making a decision on how I will vote
on a Supreme Court nominee, I ask two
questions: First, how will the nominee
serve the people of Michigan? Second,
how will the nominee serve the Nation
as a whole?
Now, more than ever, I think we need
our Supreme Court not to be just fair.
We also need Americans to truly be-
lieve that the Justices that make up
the Supreme Court are fair and capable
of dispassionate deliberation. No
human being, of course, can be entirely
impartial or without bias, but we need
Supreme Court Justices who are able
to understand their biases and set
them aside for the good of the country.
What we need is fairness. What we need
is trust.
Our fraying social fabric can only be
rebuilt by trust—trust in our institu-
tions, trust in each other, and trust
that our courts will give every Amer-
ican a fair chance in an era where cor-
porate profits are ballooning to record
levels. But 40 percent of Americans
don’t have the savings to cover a $400
emergency expense. A breakdown of
trust undermines our democracy. The
farther and faster we retreat to our
partisan tribal corners, the harder it
will be to ever meet again in the mid-
dle.
While Americans expect partisanship
from their elected officials, they expect
better from our judges. Our Founders
created a coequal branch of govern-
ment dedicated to fairness, and that
was the Supreme Court, but, unfortu-
nately, when I examine the record of
Judge Kavanaugh, I do not see an open
mind. I do not see fairness. I see a par-
tisan ideologue who will do judicial
backflips to rule in favor of large cor-
porations, the powerful, and the elite.
When the Supreme Court conducts
its duty to advise and consent on Su-
preme Court nominees, we often talk
about methods of constitutional inter-
pretation. Some judges are textualists.
Some are originalists. Some are prag-
matists. I believe Judge Kavanaugh is
a corporatist, pure and simple. He
starts with the outcome that corporate
executives would want, and then he
works backward. I believe this is the
unifying theme of his rulings over the
past decade.
Let’s take a moment to review his
record.
Judge Kavanaugh sided with big pol-
luters when he wrote that the Environ-
mental Protection Agency could not
enforce their ‘‘good neighbor’’ rule.
This commonsense rule simply requires
States whose air pollution blows across
their State’s lines to bear some of the
responsibility for those downwind
emissions. The good neighbor rule is
one of the best ways to crack down on
sulfur dioxide, a noxious pollutant that
has created a public health crisis in De-
troit, with childhood asthma rates al-
most 40 percent above the national av-
erage. More sulfur dioxide in the air
means more children in hospitals and
fewer children in the classroom.
Judge Kavanaugh substituted his
own values and judgment for the deci-
sions of Congress and the EPA, but,
fortunately, even conservative Justices
on the Supreme Court voted to over-
rule him and allowed the good neighbor
rule to stay in place.
Judge Kavanaugh apparently does
not believe in good neighbors, and he
also does not believe in good bosses. He
has consistently ruled against workers
and their interests every chance that
he gets.
He wrote a dissent saying that com-
panies can simply walk away from col-
lective bargaining agreements made
with their workers by just creating a
spin-off, a nonunion company. He ruled
that companies can call the police to
prevent workers from exercising their
right to peacefully picket. For Judge
Kavanaugh, the First Amendment
right to speech and assembly comes
second to a corporation’s bottom line.
This is the judicial philosophy that the
Republican majority is just hours away
from elevating to the highest Court in
the land.
Based on a review of Judge
Kavanaugh’s rulings, it will be clear
that if something is good for con-
sumers, he will find a way to oppose it.
For example, Judge Kavanaugh sided
with large telecom corporations over
Michigan families, startups, and small
businesses when he wrote a dissent to
gut net neutrality protections. Judge
Kavanaugh sided with payday lenders,
financial fraudsters, and global
megabanks when he ruled that the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
was unconstitutional.
Not only does Judge Kavanaugh al-
ways rule directly in favor of the larg-
est corporations and powerful special
interests, but his rulings show that he
wants to further tilt our campaign fi-
nance system in their favor. He has
spoken out and ruled in favor of unlim-
ited political spending in Federal elec-
tions.
In 2011, Judge Kavanaugh authored
an opinion that would allow foreign na-
tionals—not Americans, but foreign na-
tionals—to spend unlimited, yes, un-
limited money on issue ads in Amer-
ican elections. If you like dark money
undermining our free and fair elec-
tions, well, Judge Kavanaugh is defi-
nitely your guy. I think Judge
Kavanaugh genuinely believes that
money is speech and that corporations
are people. To him, Americans are only
an afterthought.
I know many Americans are won-
dering whether Judge Kavanaugh will
look out for their best interests if con-
firmed to the Supreme Court. I hear it
all the time as I travel across Michi-
gan.
To my fellow Americans, I would say
this. If you enjoy breathing clean air, if
you have a boss, if you care about not
being defrauded by financial bad ac-
tors, or if you care about a woman’s
right to choose, Judge Kavanaugh will
not be providing the fairness you seek.
Like many Americans, I followed
closely the testimonies of Dr. Ford and
Judge Kavanaugh before the Senate
Judiciary Committee. As I watched Dr.
Ford, I didn’t see a partisan ideologue
motivated by politics. What I saw was
a woman speaking with credibility,
with earnestness, and incredible brav-
ery.
As I watched Judge Kavanaugh tes-
tify before that same Judiciary Com-
mittee, I saw something very different.
I didn’t see the temperance and humil-
ity we expect from a Supreme Court
justice. I saw rage and I saw entitle-
ment. I didn’t see a thoughtful legal
mind bound by precedent or tradition.
I saw a partisan political operative
cloaked in judicial robes bestowed
upon him last decade by a Republican
majority flexing their political muscle.
I didn’t see an umpire who wants to
call balls and strikes. I saw a man who
believes he is the league’s commis-
sioner, a man who thinks he should
have the power to rewrite the rules of
the game to help his powerful friends. I
didn’t see a man committed to fairness
and building trust. I saw a man com-
mitted to consolidating power and
scoring political points. I saw a man
whose fluid relationship with the truth
is beneath the U.S. Senate and beneath
the U.S. Supreme Court.
Today, more than ever, America
needs trust and we need fairness. Judge
Kavanaugh’s confirmation will provide
only more division in our country and
cast a cloud over the decisions of the
Court for years to come.
I urge my colleagues to oppose Judge
Kavanaugh’s confirmation and to start
over with a nominee worthy of our Su-
preme Court.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President,
there is one standard we should all
apply to any nominee for the U.S. Su-
preme Court—honesty. While some
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.039 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6669
October 5, 2018
have chosen not to apply that standard
to Judge Kavanaugh, I must. At the
very least, we should expect a nominee
for our highest Court to be honest.
I do not believe Judge Kavanaugh has
met this standard. In fact, there is a
long record of this nominee not being
truthful when he came before the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee. I don’t be-
lieve he was truthful in his 2006 testi-
mony before the Senate, just as I don’t
believe he was honest in 2018.
Last week, I joined millions of Amer-
icans in watching Dr. Christine Blasey
Ford’s powerful testimony before the
Senate Judiciary Committee, in which
she credibly presented serious and
deeply disturbing allegations of sexual
assault. I have deep respect for the
strength and courage she has shown in
coming forward and putting her own
safety and that of her family on the
line to do the right thing. To me, Dr.
Blasey Ford was honest, and I believe
her.
I supported the call for the White
House to reopen the FBI background
investigation of Judge Kavanaugh. Dr.
Blasey Ford did too. However, in his
testimony to the Senate Judiciary
Committee, Judge Kavanaugh repeat-
edly refused to support such an inves-
tigation by the FBI.
It is clear to me that the White
House and the Senate Republicans se-
verely limited what could have been a
full and independent review by the FBI
of the credible allegations against the
Supreme Court nominee. The fact is,
White House and Senate Republicans
would not allow the FBI to interview
Dr. Blasey Ford, Judge Kavanaugh, and
a number of witnesses who came for-
ward publicly. That is simply wrong.
It is also wrong to be moving forward
on a Supreme Court nominee who so
clearly lacks the honesty and judicial
temperament we would expect of some-
one serving on our Nation’s highest
Court.
Let us not ignore what we all wit-
nessed at last week’s Judiciary Com-
mittee hearing. We saw a stark con-
trast between two witnesses. Dr. Ford
was honest, credible, respectful, and
thoughtful. On the other hand, Judge
Kavanaugh was not honest about a
number of things he was questioned
about, and he did not provide truthful
testimony. What he did provide were
aggressively angry, political attacks
that prove he lacks the judicial tem-
perament to serve on America’s high-
est Court. Even before Judge
Kavanaugh’s recent hearing, I did not
believe he would be an independent
judge.
Powerful special interests in Wash-
ington handpicked him and have used
their massive, dark money resources to
push his nomination forward. I can
only conclude that Judge Kavanaugh
would work for them and not the peo-
ple of Wisconsin or our Nation. It is no
wonder Judge Kavanaugh is the choice
of these powerful, wealthy, corporate
special interests. They want to ensure
that they maintain the majority on the
Supreme Court that will rule on their
issues and in their favor.
As my colleague and Judiciary Com-
mittee member Senator WHITEHOUSE
has described in great detail, since 2006,
the five conservative Justices have
joined together 73 times as a bare ma-
jority in 5-to-4 rulings in favor of big
special interests. These decisions have
turned back progress on voting rights,
environmental protection, and have al-
lowed corporations to discriminate
against workers.
Judge Kavanaugh’s record shows he
will advance this troubling trend when
the people of Wisconsin need a fair, im-
partial, and independent Supreme
Court Justice who will stand up for
them, not just for big, powerful special
interests.
At a time when so many in Wash-
ington are working to overturn the law
of the land that helps provide afford-
able healthcare to 133 million Ameri-
cans with preexisting conditions, in-
cluding more than 2 million Wisconsin-
ites, we cannot afford a nominee who
would serve as the deciding vote to
take us back to the days when powerful
insurance companies wrote the rules.
The President vowed to appoint
judges to the Supreme Court who
would overturn the law of the land,
Roe v. Wade, and I take him at his
word. Judge Kavanaugh is his choice
for a lifetime appointment that would
turn back the clock on a woman’s con-
stitutional right and freedom to make
her own healthcare choices, including
access to birth control.
I also have serious concerns about
Judge Kavanaugh’s belief that a Presi-
dent should be protected from inves-
tigations and subpoenas and indict-
ments. We have an ongoing national se-
curity investigation by the special
counsel looking into Russia’s attack on
our democracy, criminal conspiracy,
and potential obstruction of justice.
Particularly after his highly partisan
testimony before the Judiciary Com-
mittee, I do not trust Judge Kavanaugh
to provide the independence we need on
our Supreme Court at this time. When
Judge Kavanaugh was nominated, I re-
viewed his record and opposed his nom-
ination because the stakes are too high
for the American people. They do not
want a Supreme Court to advance a po-
litical agenda to overturn the law of
the land on healthcare for people with
preexisting conditions, women’s repro-
ductive health, and the constitutional
rights and freedoms of all Americans.
I truly wish I had been granted the
opportunity to discuss these important
issues with Judge Kavanaugh before
this vote, but after seven requests to
the White House for a meeting with
this nominee, they did not grant me
the opportunity to talk to Judge
Kavanaugh.
The people of Wisconsin need a fair,
impartial, and independent Supreme
Court Justice. Based on everything we
know, I do not have the confidence
Judge Kavanaugh would be that Jus-
tice, and I will vote no on his confirma-
tion to the U.S. Supreme Court.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, I
rise today in support of the nomination
of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be an As-
sociate Justice on the U.S. Supreme
Court.
In the Senate, the Constitution
grants us a solemn responsibility to
provide advice and consent to the
President’s nominees. I was proud to be
at the White House as President Trump
announced the nomination of this ex-
ceptionally qualified judge.
After evaluating Judge Kavanaugh’s
legal record and background, I person-
ally met with him in my office. During
our meeting we covered many topics,
including judicial activism. Judge
Kavanaugh stated to me that judicial
activism is the substitution of policy
preferences for stated law. He com-
mitted to me that he would never add
nor subtract from our country’s Con-
stitution, but that he would apply it
fairly to all. We had a wide ranging,
hour-long discussion where I shared
with him the qualities I want to see in
a Supreme Court Justice and ques-
tioned his record and judicial philoso-
phies.
Judges are not legislators or activ-
ists. They are interpreters of the law.
They must have integrity and under-
stand that all Americans must be
treated equally under the law. Judges
must uphold high standards with a
fair-minded approach, tremendous in-
tellectual capacity, and devotion to the
public good. I am confident that Judge
Kavanaugh possesses all of these quali-
ties.
Moreover, I was impressed by his
commitment to the rule of law. He un-
derstands the proper role of a judge as
an interpreter, not the writer, of the
law. He also understands that unlike
Members of Congress or the executive
branch, which are accountable to the
people, the judiciary must act inde-
pendently and follow the law wherever
it takes them. This was something we
heard repeatedly from him in his
lengthy confirmation hearing before
the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Judge Kavanaugh demonstrated his
strong commitment to judicial inde-
pendence. During the hearing, he re-
peatedly affirmed:
What makes a good judge is independence,
not being swayed by political or public pres-
sure.
That takes some backbone, it takes some
judicial fortitude. The great moments in
American judicial history, the judges had
backbone and independence.
He continued:
Judges make decisions based on law, not
on policy, not based on political pressure,
not based on the identity of the parties.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.041 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6670 October 5, 2018
No matter who you are, no matter where
you come from, no matter how rich you are,
how poor you are, no matter your race, your
gender, no matter your station in life, no
matter your position in government, it is all
equal justice under law.
I believe his words and judicial phi-
losophy are what every Member of the
Senate, Republican or Democrat,
should require from their nominee.
I also admired Judge Kavanaugh’s
appreciation of the Supreme Court’s
position in setting and interpreting
precedent. He has even written a book
on it, and I am comfortable with his
understanding and appreciation for the
role of precedent in the judicial proc-
ess.
For 12 years Judge Kavanaugh has
served on the DC Circuit Court of Ap-
peals, our Nation’s second most influ-
ential court. His record is remarkable.
With nearly 200 controlling opinions,
he has proven to be one of the most
thoughtful, preeminent judges in our
Nation. In 13 cases the Supreme Court
adopted Judge Kavanaugh’s reasoning
in its decisions. This is a key point, as
it was not just 13 decisions in agree-
ment. It was Judge Kavanaugh’s actual
language and the thought process in
his decision which were used in the
opinions of our Nation’s highest Court.
The logic behind Judge Kavanaugh’s
opinions are already woven into Su-
preme Court precedent.
Regarding privacy issues, in United
States v. Jones, Judge Kavanaugh dis-
sented when the court denied the gov-
ernment’s request for a rehearing. He
argued that the case deserved to be
heard by the full court and indicated
support for the narrow property-based
Fourth Amendment argument made by
the plaintiff.
When considering whether a warrant
was required in order to install a GPS
tracker in the suspect’s car, he said the
suspect’s property rights should have
been taken into account. In Justice
Scalia’s majority opinion, he agreed
with Kavanaugh’s property-based ap-
proach.
When it comes to administrative law,
he has taken a consistent and balanced
approach to assess congressional intent
and applying exceptions to Chevron
deference, ensuring Federal agencies
are executing the laws crafted by Con-
gress, not creating their own versions
of the law. According to his own words,
Judge Kavanaugh looks to the ‘‘set-
tled, bedrock principles of constitu-
tional law.’’
In protecting Congress, he has found
that ‘‘the President and federal agen-
cies may not ignore statutory man-
dates or prohibitions merely because of
policy disagreement with Congress.’’
Judge Kavanaugh also has a strong
comprehension of freedom of speech
under the First Amendment. He dem-
onstrated this in his decision in the
case of Boardley v. U.S. Department of
the Interior. This particular case dealt
with a Christian man, Michael
Boardley, who was stopped by the Na-
tional Park Service from handing out
pamphlets on his faith at Mount Rush-
more. Judge Kavanaugh joined the ma-
jority in ruling against the Park Serv-
ice and their exceedingly broad regula-
tion of free speech. In authoring hun-
dreds of opinions, while joining hun-
dreds of others, Judge Kavanaugh has
distinguished himself as a thought
leader on the Federal bench.
Over the past few weeks, I believe the
Senate confirmation process has be-
come a shameful spectacle and a dis-
service to everyone involved. I appre-
ciate Professor Ford’s sincere testi-
mony. I believe she has experienced a
traumatic event that no woman should
have to endure. There is no evidence,
though, that Judge Kavanaugh was the
perpetrator. A seventh FBI background
investigation of Judge Kavanaugh
failed to corroborate Professor Ford’s
account. Moreover, there are a number
of key facts missing from Professor
Ford’s story.
My job as a Senator is to assess the
facts and make a judgment. I continue
to support Judge Kavanaugh and be-
lieve he will serve our Nation with in-
tegrity and devotion to the rule of law.
I am confident that Judge Kavanaugh
will be an outstanding Supreme Court
Justice. I look forward to voting in
favor of his confirmation. He will serve
the American people with distinction.
Thank you, Madam President.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that three let-
ters and a news article related to alle-
gations against Judge Kavanaugh be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
KAPLAN HECKER & FINK LLP,
Re Nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh.
New York, NY, September 26, 2018.
Hon. DIANNE FEINSTEIN,
Member, Committee on the Judiciary,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES E. GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATORS FEINSTEIN AND GRASSLEY:
We have been retained to act as counsel for
Elizabeth Rasor. As you are no doubt aware,
Ms. Rasor was quoted in an article by Ronan
Farrow and Jane Mayer in the New Yorker
published on September 23rd regarding a con-
versation she had with Mark Judge poten-
tially relevant to the nomination of Judge
Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Su-
preme Court.
Ms. Rasor’s recollection of what occurred
is stated accurately in the New Yorker piece
and she would welcome the opportunity to
share this information with agents of the
FBI as part of a re-opened background inves-
tigation. In the event that that does not
occur, although Ms. Rasor does not welcome
the unwanted attention that would inevi-
tably result if she were to testify before the
Senate Judiciary Committee, she believes
that it is her duty as a citizen to tell the
truth about what happened.
Accordingly, please contact me at your
earliest possible convenience to make appro-
priate arrangements.
Very truly yours,
ROBERTA KAPLAN, Esq.
KAISER DILLON PLLC,
Washington, DC, September 26, 2018.
Hon. CHUCK GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
U.S. Senate.
Hon. DIANNE FEINSTEIN,
Ranking Member, Committee on the Judiciary,
U.S. Senate.
DEAR CHAIRMAN GRASSLEY AND RANKING
MEMBER FEINSTEIN: My firm represents
Deborah Ramirez, as does the law firm of
Hutchinson Black and Cook, LLC. As you
likely know, a reporter recently reached out
to Ms. Ramirez to ask her about an incident
involving Brett Kavanaugh, President
Trump’s nominee for the United States Su-
preme Court. Ms. Ramirez answered the re-
porter’s questions, and he, after interviewing
a number of additional witnesses, wrote a
story: https://www.newyorker.com/news/
news-desk/senate-democrats-investigate-a-
new-allegation-of-sexual-misconduct-from-
the-supreme-court-nominee-brett-
kavanaughs-college-years-deborah-ramirez.
That story recounts that the reporter first
learned of the relevant incident from indi-
viduals other than Ms. Ramirez. The re-
porter then approached Ms. Ramirez, who
confirmed and further described the inci-
dent. The reporter proceeded independently
to verify the story with other individuals, in-
cluding one who remembered contempora-
neously learning of the incident (including
that it involved Mr. Kavanaugh and Ms. Ra-
mirez), and another who remembered con-
temporaneously overhearing a student tear-
fully recounting what could only have been
the same incident.
Ms. Ramirez has asked that the FBI inves-
tigate further. She has done so both by di-
rect request (through counsel) to the FBI,
and by asking this Committee (again,
through counsel) to involve the FBI. Thus
far, however, the Committee has refused.
This is illogical: An FBI investigation would
allow a credible, efficient, and professional
development of the facts—free from par-
tisanship. This not only would best protect
Ms. Ramirez from being dragged into a polit-
ical fray, but also would best allow the Com-
mittee to learn those facts. and thereby pro-
ceed in an informed manner. Ms. Ramirez
asks again: If the Committee cares about the
facts with respect to the incident she has de-
scribed, it should ask the FBI to investigate.
Ms. Ramirez is willing to cooperate with
the Committee. To that end, she—through
counsel—repeatedly has asked the Com-
mittee to speak with her about a process by
which she fairly can be heard by Committee
members. But the majority staff thus far has
refused even to speak with Ms. Ramirez’s
counsel; instead, that staff has insisted that
Ms. Ramirez first ‘‘provide her evidence.’’
Respectfully, that demand misunderstands
the process. Ms. Ramirez has not conducted
an investigation to gather materials that she
now somehow can present, gift-wrapped, to
the Committee. She is not a litigant, and she
is not a partisan. Rather, she simply has told
her story, truthfully and as best she could,
to a reporter who asked. Indeed, the major-
ity’s confusion on this issue underscores the
need for an FBI investigation—that is the or-
ganization that credibly could develop the
additional ‘‘evidence’’ the majority ref-
erences. What Ms. Ramirez can do—and all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.042 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6671
October 5, 2018
that Ms. Ramirez can do—is simply tell what
happened to her.
Ms. Ramirez has no agenda. She did not
volunteer for this. But nor has she, or will
she, shy away from truthfully recounting the
facts. She asks only to be treated fairly. The
Committee should begin by allowing the FBI
to investigate.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM PITTARD.
KAPLAN HECKER & FINK LLP,
New York, NY, September 27, 2018.
Re Nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh.
Hon. DIANE FEINSTEIN,
Member, Committee on the Judiciary,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES E. GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATORS FEINSTEIN AND GRASSLEY:
As a follow up to my letter of yesterday’s
date, we enclose an affidavit from Ms. Rasor
executed yesterday evening.
Very truly yours,
ROBERTA A. KAPLAN.
AFFIDAVIT OF ELIZABETH RASOR
I, Elizabeth Rasor, being duly sworn, here-
by depose and say:
1. I make this affidavit based on my per-
sonal knowledge.
2. I have a bachelor’s degree in English
Literature from Catholic University and a
master’s degree in Special Education from
Teacher’s College at Columbia University.
3. I first met Mark Judge in or around the
fall of 1986 while we were both students at
Catholic University.
4. We engaged in a serious, romantic rela-
tionship for approximately two years begin-
ning in 1986 through 1988. We dated exclu-
sively during much of that time period and
attempted to reunite several times in the
months afterwards until I moved to New
York from Washington, D.C. in 1989.
5. While we were dating, I spent time with
Mark’s friends from Georgetown Prep and at-
tended a couple of social gatherings at which
they were present.
6. I met Brett Kavanaugh at a couple of
social gatherings on or around 1987.
7. Brett continued to socialize with Mark
and their friends from Georgetown Prep dur-
ing this time.
8. At the parties that Brett and Mark at-
tended during this period, there was frequent
and wide-spread alcohol consumption
9. In or around 1988, in the context of a
conversation we had about how we lost our
virginities, Mark told me, in a voice that
seemed to convey a degree of shame, about
an incident that had occurred a few years
prior, where he and several other boys from
Georgetown Prep took turns having sex with
a woman who was drunk. It was Mark’s per-
ception that the sexual activity was consen-
sual.
10. To the best of my recollection, at the
time of the conversation, I, and I believe
Mark, were sober.
11. After this initial conversation. Mark
and I never discussed this again.
12. Mark did not share with me any names
of other individuals involved in this inci-
dent, and I do not have any information to
suggest, one way or another, that Brett was
one of them.
13. Mark and I broke up towards the end
of 1988.
14. I last spoke with Mark in or around
2013. We met for lunch at Georgetown Uni-
versity to catch up, and I brought my son.
I solemnly swear or affirm under the pen-
alties of perjury that the matters set forth
in this Affidavit are true and correct to the
best of my personal knowledge, information,
and belief.
ELIZABETH RASOR,
Sag Harbor, New York, September 26, 2018.
Sworn to before me this 26th day of Sep-
tember, 2018
LINDSEY BECKELMAN,
Notary public.
[From NBC News, Oct. 5, 2018]
THE BATTLE OVER ACCUSATIONS GOES ON AS
KAVANAUGH NOMINATION ADVANCES
(By Heidi Przybyla)
WASHINGTON—As Senate Judiciary Chair-
man Charles Grassley, R–Iowa, closed out his
executive summary of allegations of sexual
misconduct against Supreme Court nominee
Brett Kavanaugh, his staff called a former
roommate of Deborah Ramirez, the Yale
classmate who has accused Kavanaugh of ex-
posing himself to her.
Jen Klaus, the former roommate, told NBC
News that committee staff members called
her at 4:30 p.m. Thursday, put her on
speakerphone and asked about Ramirez’s
drinking habits, whether there was a Yale
student known for dropping his pants and
the party culture at Yale. She says they sug-
gested the allegation was a case of mistaken
identity.
‘‘It just gave me the impression they were
suggesting perhaps it was (another class-
mate) who threw his penis in her face instead
of Brett. Why would they be asking me
this?’’ said Klaus, who now resides in Brook-
line, Massachusetts.
In a statement to NBC News, the commit-
tee’s press secretary, George Hartmann, said
that ‘‘no suggestion of mistaken identity
was made. The committee has received nu-
merous tips and asked Ms. Klaus for infor-
mation she could provide one way or the
other.’’
‘‘To say otherwise would not only be inac-
curate, it would also call into question the
motivations of the individual doing so,’’
Hartmann added.
The FBI’s supplemental background inves-
tigation into allegations against Kavanaugh
included interviews with nine individuals
and the results were sent to the White House
and Senate Thursday morning. Grassley’s
summary said that committee staffers
talked to 35 individuals.
Kavanaugh has strongly denied the allega-
tions and his confirmation appears to have
the votes to pass on Saturday after Sens.
Susan Collins, R–Maine, and Joe Manchin,
D–W.Va., said they would support him late
Friday afternoon.
Two former Yale classmates say they have
made several attempts to share text mes-
sages raising questions about whether
Kavanaugh tried to squash the New Yorker
story that made Ramirez’s accusations pub-
lic—and say the FBI did not respond to their
calls and written submissions to its web por-
tal.
The text messages involve one potential
eyewitness to the incident and the wife of
another potential eyewitness.
The texts are a conversation between
Kathy Charlton and a mutual friend of
Kavanaugh’s who, NBC has confirmed, was
identified to the FBI by Ramirez as an eye-
witness to the incident. NBC News has re-
ceived no response to multiple attempts to
reach the alleged eyewitness for comment.
The story detailing Ramirez’s accusation
was published in The New Yorker on Sept. 23.
Charlton told NBC News that, in a phone
conversation three days earlier, the former
classmate told her Kavanaugh had called
him and advised him not to say anything
‘‘bad’’ if the press were to call.
Then on September 21, according to the
texts, that same person sent Charlton a text
accusing her of disclosing their conversation
to a reporter. ‘‘Helllllloooo. Don’t F******
TELL PEOPLE BRETT GOT IN TOUCH
WITH ME!!! I TOLD YOU AT THE TIME
THAT WAS IN CONFIDENCE!!!’’
9/21/18, 12:34PM
To: Kathy Charlton
From: [REDACTED]
Did you get to go through the biz plan and
see [REDACTED] notes?
Helllllloooooooo
Don’t F[REDACTED] TELL PEOPLE
BRETT GOT IN TOUCH WITH ME!!!
I TOLD YOU AT THE TIME THAT WAS IN
CONFIDENCE!! AND
[REDACTED] CALLS ME. WTF!
‘‘From the content and all capital letters
of the text (the alleged witness) seemed to
feel that there was a great deal at stake for
Brett if Brett’s fears of exposure ever became
public,’’ Charlton wrote in a statement to
the FBI shared with Grassley’s office on Oct.
4.
Charlton is not the only former Yale class-
mate of Kavanaugh’s to indicate the nomi-
nee and his team were active in reaching out
to their social group ahead of publication of
The New Yorker story. NBC News has re-
ported that a memo to the FBI, drafted by
Kerry Berchem, questioned whether
Kavanaugh ‘‘and/or’’ his friends ‘‘may have
initiated an anticipatory narrative’’ as early
as July to ‘‘conceal or discredit’’ Ramirez.
Both women stressed that they don’t know
the whole story and are drawing no conclu-
sions but are baffled as to why they were
never interviewed by the FBI or Judiciary
staff.
Both say they have made numerous at-
tempts to reach the FBI. Thursday night,
after Grassley pronounced the investigation
complete, Berchem sent her third email to
Mike Davis, the chief counsel for the Senate
Judiciary Committee, pleading for him
speak with her. Similar to his responses to
previous emails, Davis noted that her infor-
mation was forwarded to the investigative
staff. Berchem shared the exchange with
NBC News.
Hartmann, the committee press secretary,
said ‘‘it would be a lie to say committee in-
vestigators did not interview Ms. Berchem.
Committee investigators spoke at length
with Ms. Berchem on Oct. 3. Committee in-
vestigators also extensively reviewed infor-
mation provided by Ms. Berchem.’’
Berchem told NBC News that she has had
one call with a committee staff member to
whom she gave a brief overview of her con-
cerns but was not interviewed.
Hartmann also said the committee re-
ceived correspondence from Charlton. ‘‘In
her letter, Ms. Charlton asked the com-
mittee to review her exchange, which the
committee did, and said the committee
should feel free to contact her if there were
any questions,’’ Hartmann said. ‘‘After eval-
uating the information provided, the com-
mittee’s professional investigators did not
see a need for a follow-up call.’’
THE TEXTS
The efforts by the two women have contin-
ued even as Republicans like Grassley insist
that the investigation of the accusations
against Kavanaugh is complete.
Berchem sent to the FBI some of 51 screen
shots of text messages she exchanged with
her friend, Karen Yarasavage, the wife of
Kevin Genda, another alum Ramirez identi-
fied as an eyewitness, to explain why
Kavanaugh and his friends should be asked
whether they anticipated a story about Ra-
mirez as early as July.
Ramirez identified to the FBI Dave Todd,
Kevin Genda and Dave White as eyewitnesses
who were in the room during the alleged in-
cident, according to a source familiar with
the investigation.
In July, as the Washington Post quietly re-
searched a story on a woman accusing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06OC6.005 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6672 October 5, 2018
Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct while they
were in high school, Berchem said she re-
ceived what she presumed was a misfired
text from Yarasavage.
The text suggests that Kavanaugh’s closest
Yale friends and those Ramirez later identi-
fied as witnesses were searching for an old
1997 wedding party photo that includes them-
selves, as well as Ramirez and Kavanaugh,
all smiling together.
The July 16 text notes that ‘‘Whitey,’’ or
Dave White, sent a 1997 wedding party photo
to the Washington Post. Berchem is not
friends with White and assumed it was mis-
takenly sent to her. The text came 10 days
after Dr. Ford sent an anonymous tip to the
Washington Post’s confidential tip line, ac-
cording to her testimony before the Senate.
‘‘Why was the 1997 photo retrieved and dis-
tributed to the Washington Post at that
time? Debbie’s allegations against Brett do
not become public until September 23rd,’’
writes Berchem in her memo.
The Post did not publish its piece identi-
fying Dr. Christine Blasey Ford as the ac-
cuser until September.
In July, Yarasavage also began texting
about an old classmate whom neither was or
is close to, Rick F. On July 16, Yarasavage
texted Berchem noting she found a ‘‘box of
college photos. Rick (F) etc.’’
‘‘Neither of us knew him well in college.
Does she actually have photos of him?’’
Berchem asked in her memo.
On Sept. 23, the day the New Yorker pub-
lished Ramirez’s story accusing Kavanaugh
of exposing himself, Yarasavage returned to
Rick F.: ‘‘I thought I heard (he) pulled out
his unit once. Could she be so wildly mis-
taken??’’
The subject, Rick, hadn’t been at Yale in
the 1983–84 school year. ‘‘She concludes by
appearing to insinuate that Ms. Ramirez’s
memory may have been adversely impacted
by problems with her father,’’ writes
Berchem.
On the same day, Yarasavage also texted
Berchem that she was being contacted by
‘‘Brett’s guy’’ and that ‘‘Brett asked me to
go on the record’’ regarding the New Yorker
piece.
‘‘I believe that these September 23rd texts
raise factual issues, such as the contents of
the conversation if it occurred between
Judge Kavanaugh and why (Yarasavage)
seemed to be encouraging a false ‘mistaken
identity’ theory involving someone who
wasn’t at Yale at the time of the alleged in-
cident—that might merit the FBI’s further
investigation,’’ wrote Berchem. NBC News
has received no response to attempts to con-
tact Yarasavage.
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, I
rise to speak in opposition to the nomi-
nation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to
serve as an Associate Justice on the
U.S. Supreme Court.
The vacancy that Judge Kavanaugh
seeks to fill is not an ordinary one. The
retirement of Supreme Court Justice
Anthony Kennedy created one of the
most consequential vacancies on the
High Court that this country has ever
seen. There is a reason why scholars
and pundits refer to the Supreme Court
of the last 30 years as the ‘‘Kennedy
Court.’’ His influence on so many im-
portant cases cannot be overstated.
Throughout his three decades on the
Supreme Court, Justice Kennedy was
often the swing vote in decisions de-
cided 5 to 4 on a divided Bench. After
John Roberts became Chief Justice in
2005, Justice Kennedy was the deciding
vote in 92 percent of all cases decided
by one vote. Let me repeat that. Of the
203 cases decided by a 5-to-4 vote in the
John Roberts era, Justice Kennedy was
the deciding vote in 186 of them—92
percent.
The Justice who succeeds Anthony
Kennedy on the Supreme Court will
have the opportunity to leave a deep
and lasting mark on issues of the high-
est magnitude. Any nominee to the Su-
preme Court carries significance, but a
nominee at this moment, for this seat,
will play a defining role in our Nation’s
history.
The constitutional obligation con-
ferred on Senators to provide their ad-
vice and consent on a Supreme Court
nomination is a powerful, a serious,
and a sacred responsibility. As Sen-
ators, we are duty-bound to determine
whether Brett Kavanaugh is worthy of
our trust. Even before President Trump
nominated Brett Kavanaugh to the Su-
preme Court, there were serious con-
cerns that his views were too extreme,
that he lacked the independence we
seek in our judges, and that he had a
difficult relationship with the truth.
During the confirmation process for
his current position on the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the DC Circuit, Brett
Kavanaugh made misleading state-
ments under oath to the Senate Judici-
ary Committee on issues such as the
Bush administration’s policies on tor-
ture, his involvement in the nomina-
tions of controversial judges, and his
knowledge about the theft of emails
from the Democratic staff of the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee.
Then, when it came time to fill Jus-
tice Kennedy’s seat on the Supreme
Court, Judge Kavanaugh was hand-
picked by the Federalist Society—an
ultraconservative group that is dedi-
cated to installing far-right judges on
our Federal bench. The Federalist So-
ciety promised Donald Trump that the
judges on that list would support his
partisan agenda if they were elevated
to the Supreme Court. Donald Trump
repeatedly assured his supporters
about that agenda and promised them
that he would only appoint Justices to
the Supreme Court who would overturn
Roe v. Wade and the Affordable Care
Act. Let me restate that. Donald
Trump promised that he would only ap-
point Justices to the Supreme Court
who would overturn Roe v. Wade and
the Affordable Care Act.
As to Brett Kavanaugh, the promises
that Donald Trump and the Federalist
Society made were backed up by
Kavanaugh’s judicial record on the DC
Circuit.
As a Federal appeals court judge,
Brett Kavanaugh wrote a dissenting
opinion that questioned Congress’s au-
thority to enact the Affordable Care
Act and suggested that the President
could choose not to enforce it.
Judge Kavanaugh would have
blocked a lower court’s order allowing
an undocumented minor to safely and
legally terminate her pregnancy.
Judge Kavanaugh supported employ-
ers who sought to deny their employees
access to contraception.
Judge Kavanaugh wrote an opinion
that unless guns were regulated either
at the time the Constitution was writ-
ten or traditionally throughout his-
tory, they could not be regulated now.
He would have struck down the Dis-
trict of Columbia’s assault weapons
ban because assault weapons have not
historically been banned.
How about 3D-downloaded guns? That
was not in the original Constitution.
There was no 3D gun. Are we bound by
what the Founding Fathers thought
about weapons or can we ourselves
make a determination here? He says
no. It goes back to the time when the
Constitution was drafted or throughout
history but not today. That is just
wrong.
Judge Kavanaugh has consistently
opposed strong environmental protec-
tions and sought to restrict the author-
ity of the Environmental Protection
Agency. He also authored a dissenting
opinion that argued that net neutrality
rules were unconstitutional.
Time and again, on all of these
issues—access to healthcare, gun con-
trol, consumer and environmental pro-
tections, and a free and open internet—
Judge Kavanaugh has been a
rubberstamp for a far-rightwing agen-
da. Yet that is not the only reason
President Trump chose Brett
Kavanaugh for the Supreme Court.
Judge Kavanaugh, who once served
as Ken Starr’s top deputy in the inves-
tigation of President Clinton, has since
written that a sitting President should
not be investigated for allegations of
wrongdoing, should not be indicted or
tried while in office, and should not
even have to participate in civil legal
proceedings until he leaves office. This
is a convenient reversal of a pro-inves-
tigation and pro-litigation position
that Kavanaugh held when a Democrat
was in the White House. It is a reversal
that synchronizes very well with Don-
ald Trump’s interests.
With Donald Trump under criminal
investigation and with legal issues
arising from that investigation poten-
tially headed to the Supreme Court and
with Brett Kavanaugh’s having articu-
lated strong views about shielding a
sitting President from criminal pro-
ceedings, his confirmation is a con-
stitutional crisis in the making. It is
no coincidence that a President who
fears the long arm of the law would
nominate to the Supreme Court a ju-
rist who would keep him from its
reach.
Brett Kavanaugh has left a lengthy
paper trail on all of these hot-button
issues. That is why President Trump
and his allies closed ranks and fought
to keep so much of his record hidden
from the American public. Despite re-
peated requests from Senate Demo-
crats for documents relating to Brett
Kavanaugh’s service in the Bush White
House, we—the Members of the Sen-
ate—have only seen 7 percent of those
records that were, in fact, part of
Kavanaugh’s record inside the Bush
White House, and only about half of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06OC6.008 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6673
October 5, 2018
that 7 percent are available to the pub-
lic.
To put it another way, no Senator
has seen 93 percent of all of Brett
Kavanaugh’s work in the White House.
That work includes reflections on his
views on the detention of enemy com-
batants, interrogation techniques and
the use of torture, warrantless wire-
tapping, and the banning of same-sex
marriage.
We on the Senate floor—and as we
cast a vote today—do not have access
to any of those documents that he
worked on while he served in the Bush
White House. How can we give advice
before we vote on consent if we can’t
even gain access to the documents
which he himself handled in the Bush
White House and which he himself may
have commented upon during the time
they were being considered? We have
no access to it. Ninety-three percent of
all of the documents are not available
to the Members of the Senate. Even
though there are reams of paper detail-
ing Brett Kavanaugh’s involvement in
these issues, his record on them re-
mains a blank slate for Senators.
To summarize, even before the events
of the last 3 weeks, we knew a lot of
things about Brett Kavanaugh and yet,
at the same time, shockingly little
about Brett Kavanaugh. We knew we
had a blatantly partisan person, but as
you are trying to be nominated for the
Supreme Court, we—the Senators and
the American public—have a right to
know what you think about issues.
That is why every preceding nominee
had to provide all of the documenta-
tion, with the notable exception of
Brett Kavanaugh, who is denying us 93
percent.
This is happening with the acquies-
cence of the Trump White House and
the Republican leadership here in the
Senate. No Member of the Senate,
Democrat or Republican, knows what
is in the 93 percent of all of the papers.
No one knows. It is a deliberate cover-
up of all of those documents so that we
cannot know, so that the public cannot
know. So we begin with that—the 93
percent of all of his records in the
White House that are not accessible to
us even though this nominee is given
to us from this White House. We know
a lot, but there is much, much more
that we do not know.
We knew that we had a Federalist
Society-approved nominee who would
overturn Roe and the Affordable Care
Act. We knew we had a President with
a vested interest in finding a future
Justice who could shield him from
legal jeopardy, and we knew that there
was much else we didn’t know because
that 93 percent was being hidden from
public scrutiny. All of these reasons
alone were enough to warrant a ‘‘no’’
vote on Judge Kavanaugh’s lifetime ap-
pointment to the Supreme Court.
Then we learned of Dr. Christine
Blasey Ford. Dr. Blasey Ford bravely
came forward to tell us about the Brett
Kavanaugh she knew. She came for-
ward to share a deeply personal and
traumatic experience of sexual assault.
Dr. Blasey Ford did not want to share
this painful story with the American
public. She did not want to have her
life upturned and picked apart. She did
not want to subject her family to har-
assment and death threats. She did not
want the President of the United
States to shamefully and appallingly
mock her at a political rally, but she
came forward anyway. She came for-
ward because she believed it was her
civic duty to do so.
From the beginning, it was clear that
her allegations were credible. She had
recounted the painful experiences to
her husband, in couples’ counseling,
years before Brett Kavanaugh was ever
considered for the Supreme Court—
something her therapist’s contempora-
neous notes corroborate. Three days
before Brett Kavanaugh was nomi-
nated, while his name was publicly in
play for the Supreme Court, Dr. Blasey
Ford reached out to her Congress-
woman in the hope that she could help
inform President Trump as he decided
on a nominee to fill Justice Kennedy’s
seat.
Dr. Blasey Ford took a polygraph
test to prove that she was truthful, and
she only shared her story publicly
when reporters made it untenable to
remain silent. Every detail shows Dr.
Blasey Ford to be consistent, honest,
and trustworthy. As hard as it was for
her, Dr. Ford did our country an in-
valuable service by coming forward,
testifying before the Senate, and tell-
ing the entire country her story.
Her testimony was powerful. It was
heart-wrenching. When she spoke of
her strongest memory of the assault—
the laughter of the two boys as Brett
Kavanaugh pinned her down—we felt
her profound pain. When she spoke of
Brett Kavanaugh’s covering her mouth
as she tried to scream, we felt her vis-
ceral fear. For countless women and
men across the country whose experi-
ences mirror that of Dr. Blasey Ford’s,
this testimony was their voice. For
many of them, Dr. Blasey Ford’s brav-
ery gave them the courage to come for-
ward with their own stories of sexual
assault.
On the day of her testimony, my of-
fice received over 100 calls from sur-
vivors who courageously shared with
my staff the painful details of their
own assaults. Many of these men and
women were telling their stories for
the first time. Women have stopped me
at the airport and on the street to tell
me their stories.
Dr. Ford has given them the counsel
to come forward so they can share
their own experiences. Dr. Ford’s cour-
age opened a wellspring of emotion. I
applaud her. We owe her a deep debt of
gratitude. She was a role model for all
of us, for the children of the country,
and for future generations. She has
given new meaning to what it means to
be a good citizen.
Dr. Ford was compelling. She was
convincing. She was courageous. She
had nothing to gain and everything to
lose. No reasonable, open-minded per-
son could have listened to Dr. Blasey
Ford and concluded anything other
than that she is telling the truth about
what happened between her and Brett
Kavanaugh.
Yet there are two sides to every
story. What about the other side of the
story? What did Judge Brett
Kavanaugh have to say about it after
we heard Dr. Ford testify before the
Judiciary Committee? It was Judge
Kavanaugh’s turn. What did we hear
from Judge Kavanaugh? We heard
anger. We heard belligerence. We heard
evasiveness. We heard disrespect.
Judge Kavanaugh’s testimony before
the Judiciary Committee reinforced
the old concerns about his credibility.
He gave answers about his behavior in
high school, about supposed drinking
games, and about his yearbook page
that simply defy credulity. Recent re-
ports from those who knew him in high
school and college contradict his asser-
tions that he was never aggressive or
belligerent after drinking or that the
terms he used in his yearbook had the
meanings as ascribed to them before
the Judiciary Committee.
In fact, in a letter Judge Kavanaugh
himself wrote in 1983 that surfaced
after his testimony, he described him-
self and his friends as ‘‘loud, obnoxious
drunks.’’
The point is not that Brett
Kavanaugh engaged in questionable be-
havior in high school. The point is he
was not honest about it with the Judi-
ciary Committee under oath at his con-
firmation hearing. The point is he was
not credible. The point is he misled the
Judiciary Committee. As my col-
leagues framed the issue yesterday, the
point is that if we are assessing wheth-
er Dr. Ford’s allegations satisfy a
more-likely-than-not standard, they do
and do so easily. The point is that
Judge Kavanaugh showed an alarming
lack of judicial temperament in ad-
dressing those issues.
Don’t take my word for it. Consider
what Judge Brett Kavanaugh has to
say. What would Judge Brett
Kavanaugh say about Supreme Court
nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s appearance
before the Judiciary Committee?
Well, in 2015, Judge Brett Kavanaugh
gave a speech at the Catholic Univer-
sity on what makes a good judge. He
set forth litmus tests for a good
judge—the characteristics and quali-
ties he or she must have. Here is what
he said then. Brett Kavanaugh said:
‘‘First and obviously, a good judge, like
a good umpire, cannot act as a par-
tisan.’’ He went on to say that it is
very important for a judge ‘‘to avoid
any semblance of that partisanship,
that political background.’’ Yet in his
opening statement to the Judiciary
Committee—his opening statement—
Judge Kavanaugh launched into a na-
kedly partisan screed. He blamed
Democratic Senators for a conspiracy
to destroy his nomination. He called
the recent allegations against him a
part of some ‘‘revenge of the Clintons.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.046 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6674 October 5, 2018
He told the Democratic Senators on
the dais that ‘‘what goes around comes
around,’’ making an unvarnished polit-
ical threat. That was in his opening
statement to the Judiciary Committee.
Judge Kavanaugh failed his own test of
partisanship.
Next, in his 2015 Catholic University
speech, Judge Kavanaugh said: ‘‘[I]t is
critical to have the proper demeanor.’’
Judge Kavanaugh added that it is im-
portant for judges ‘‘to keep our emo-
tions in check, and be calm against the
storm.’’
Anyone watching Judge Kavanaugh’s
testimony before the Judiciary Com-
mittee saw just the opposite. Judge
Kavanaugh was angry, emotional, and
belligerent. What we saw was a per-
formance we would expect from a judge
on the ‘‘People’s Court,’’ not on the Su-
preme Court of the United States.
Judge Kavanaugh failed his own test
for judicial temperament.
Finally, in his 2015 Catholic Univer-
sity speech, Judge Kavanaugh coun-
seled that a good judge ‘‘must dem-
onstrate civility.’’ Yet in his appear-
ance before the Judiciary Committee,
Judge Kavanaugh impugned the mo-
tives of Democratic Senators. He was
rude. He interrupted questions. He
went so far as to ask my colleague Sen-
ator KLOBUCHAR whether she ever
blacked out from drinking—an affront
by a nominee who was there to provide
answers, not to ask questions. Brett
Kavanaugh failed his own test of civil-
ity.
That is why more than 2,400 law pro-
fessors have written to the Senate and
told us ‘‘Judge Brett Kavanaugh dis-
played a lack of judicial temperament
that would be disqualifying for any
court, and certainly for elevation to
the highest Court of this land.’’
That is why former Supreme Court
Justice John Paul Stevens took the ex-
traordinary step of stating publicly
that Judge Kavanaugh’s performance
at his qualification hearing disquali-
fied him from serving on the Supreme
Court.
Let me say this: Brett Kavanaugh is
not entitled to a job on the Supreme
Court—no one is—but the American
people are entitled to the truth. Presi-
dent Trump and the Senate Repub-
licans have kept it from them.
The FBI background investigation
that was reopened after Dr. Blasey
Ford’s testimony was not a real inves-
tigation. It was a figleaf to cover for
Republicans with concerns about Judge
Kavanaugh.
The FBI interviewed only nine wit-
nesses. Unbelievably, Dr. Blasey Ford
and Judge Kavanaugh were not among
the people interviewed by the FBI. The
FBI was forced to ignore countless
leaks or not to follow up on them.
Then Senators were given 1 hour to re-
view the results of the so-called inves-
tigation.
I was locked in a secure room with 17
Senators, and there was one copy of
the FBI report for all of us. It was like
a bad game show, where Senators had
to compete with each other to get
pages of the report from the hands of
their colleagues, read them, and digest
them before the clock ran out on the 1
hour we were given to read the report.
It was the single most absurd thing I
have experienced in my time in Con-
gress.
Sadly, it was entirely consistent with
the manner in which the Senate Repub-
licans have handled this nomination
throughout the confirmation process.
That is because the White House and
the Senate Republicans weren’t inter-
ested in getting to the truth. They
were interested in covering it up and
ramming through Judge Kavanaugh’s
nomination.
They have gone so far as to stoke
claims that Dr. Ford’s supporters have
an ulterior motive and that Dr. Ford is
being used for political reasons. It
seems that many of my Republican col-
leagues just cannot bring themselves
to believe a woman’s account of a sex-
ual assault and that other women and
men would rise up in support of her. It
is shameful that people think this is
what has occurred. It is just shameful.
Article III of the Constitution says
that a Supreme Court Justice ‘‘shall
hold their Office during good behav-
ior.’’ That is the standard after some-
one serves on the Supreme Court. What
this body has been unwilling to do is to
actually determine whether Judge
Kavanaugh has engaged in good behav-
ior before he is put on the Court. They
have truncated that process. They have
made it impossible for us to get to the
bottom of that truth.
The Republicans control this Cham-
ber. They control the schedule. They
have rushed to judgment on Brett
Kavanaugh in order to confirm him be-
fore the midterm elections.
They have 51 votes to confirm anyone
they want. The Democrats do not con-
trol this Chamber. The Republicans
have 51 votes. If they wanted to bring
in someone else who did not have these
problems, they could have done it any-
time. They could do it today.
Some say we have no power to stop
the Republicans from confirming a Jus-
tice this year—no power. That is abso-
lutely untrue. What the Republicans
have in their power, however, is to
nominate someone—even today—who is
worthy of serving on the Supreme
Court.
We know they want a Supreme Court
Justice who would overturn Roe v.
Wade. We know they want a Supreme
Court Justice who will take away
health insurance coverage for pre-
existing conditions. We know they
want a Justice who will oppose any gun
control, and we know they want a Su-
preme Court Justice who will not ques-
tion Donald Trump or let him be inves-
tigated.
If Brett Kavanaugh is confirmed, it
will further harm a Supreme Court
that has never fully recovered from
Bush v. Gore—the partisan decision
that threw the 2000 Presidential elec-
tion to George W. Bush. It will further
harm a Supreme Court that has not re-
covered from Judge Neil Gorsuch join-
ing the Court after Senate Republicans
stole that seat from Judge Merrick
Garland. Confirming Judge Kavanaugh
to the Supreme Court will further
erode and undermine the Court’s legit-
imacy and continue to diminish the
American people’s trust in it.
The Supreme Court of the United
States deserves better than Brett
Kavanaugh. The American people de-
serve better. Our democracy deserves
better.
I will therefore vote no on the nomi-
nation of Judge Kavanaugh to serve as
an Associate Justice on the Supreme
Court of the United States, and I urge
my colleagues to vote no as well.
Thank you.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The Senator from New Hampshire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, I
come to the floor to join so many of
my colleagues in expressing my opposi-
tion to Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination
to serve as an Associate Justice on the
Supreme Court.
As the highest Court in the land, the
Justices on the Supreme Court are
tasked with the enormous responsi-
bility of interpreting and protecting
the fundamental constitutional rights
that are guaranteed to all Americans.
Its decisions are not abstract legal
principles that are reserved for a few.
Its decisions affect the rights of all of
us. They touch on issues that affect all
of our daily lives—from the healthcare
we receive to the person we can marry,
to the air we breathe. These are signifi-
cant stakes that we face when consid-
ering any nominee to serve on the Su-
preme Court.
Weeks ago, I announced my opposi-
tion to Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination
based on concerns I had with his
record. Even though—as Senator MAR-
KEY pointed out so eloquently—we
haven’t gotten to see a lot of that
record, we have enough to know that I
have very serious concerns about Judge
Kavanaugh. I want to talk about a cou-
ple of those and actually highlight
three concerns.
First is his opposition to the Afford-
able Care Act. I believe all Americans
in this country—everyone in this coun-
try—should have access to healthcare,
healthcare they can afford so they
don’t have to worry when they take
their kids to the doctor, so they don’t
have to worry about being bankrupt
because they can’t afford the costs, and
so they don’t have to worry if they de-
velop a serious illness. Yet Judge
Kavanaugh dissented in a decision to
uphold the Affordable Care Act, and as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.047 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6675
October 5, 2018
a result of that decision, he puts crit-
ical protections for millions of Ameri-
cans with preexisting conditions at
risk.
It is particularly concerning now,
when we know there is a court case in
Texas which the Government of the
United States has declined to continue
to defend that puts at risk the require-
ment that insurance companies cover
those with preexisting conditions.
You can talk about trying to bandaid
over that any way you want, but the
fact is, unless we have a real
healthcare program, as we have under
the Affordable Care Act, insurance
companies are not going to cover peo-
ple with preexisting conditions, and
they are going to charge you more if
they do cover you.
Second, I am very concerned about
his opposition to women’s reproductive
rights. Judge Kavanaugh has praised
Justice Rehnquist’s dissent in the land-
mark Roe v. Wade decision that guar-
antees women’s rights to make their
own reproductive decisions. I believe
that is one of the most basic and funda-
mental rights we have, not just as
women but that families have. Women
should be able to make that decision in
consultation with their families, with
their physicians, according to their re-
ligious beliefs, and this should not be
something the government dictates.
Yet Brett Kavanaugh suggests this fun-
damental basic right is up for consider-
ation.
Finally, I have a serious concern
about Judge Kavanaugh’s view of exec-
utive branch power that could place
the President above the law.
Judge Kavanaugh has said that sit-
ting Presidents can’t be indicted, can’t
be prosecuted, and should have the au-
thority to fire a special counsel at will.
Well, with the Mueller investigation,
with so many concerns that have been
raised about this President’s manipula-
tion of laws that have allowed him to
enrich himself and his company, where
he has been suggesting that he may
fire the Attorney General because he is
not willing to do his bidding at the
Justice Department—I just don’t see
how we can put somebody on the Su-
preme Court who thinks that the Presi-
dent is above the law.
As I have learned American history
and our Constitution and our values
and principles, I believe that nobody is
above the law in our democracy, in-
cluding the President of the United
States, and I think we need a Supreme
Court Justice who believes the same
thing. Yet what we have heard from
Judge Kavanaugh suggests that he
thinks the President is above the law.
At the time I announced my opposi-
tion to the nominee, we had not heard
the allegations of sexual assault
against Judge Kavanaugh. In the weeks
since those allegations have come out,
this Senate, this country, have been
rocked by those allegations. I was one
of the many millions of Americans
throughout the country who tuned in
to closely watch that hearing when
Christine Blasey Ford shared her story.
Her testimony in front of the Judiciary
Committee was sincere and credible,
and I believe her.
The impact of Dr. Ford’s testimony
is very telling about the pervasiveness
of sexual violence in our culture. The
allegations made by Christine Ford and
others were serious and trustworthy,
and I believe they should have been
thoroughly and impartially inves-
tigated, and they were not.
But on the positive side, Dr. Ford’s
bravery has given so many women in
this country the courage to tell their
stories. She gave others courage, and
we have seen an outpouring from sur-
vivors who now feel as though they,
too, can come forward.
Senator MARKEY talked about the
number of people that he has heard
from in his office, and I have heard
that same story time and again from so
many of my colleagues. We are cer-
tainly seeing this in New Hampshire.
The Sexual Harassment and Rape Pre-
vention Program, which is also called
SHARP—a program at the University
of New Hampshire that provides serv-
ices and support to sexual assault sur-
vivors—reported an increase in people
reaching out for help. I have heard
from crisis centers across the Granite
State that have fielded an influx of
calls from survivors who can relate to
Dr. Ford’s testimony and who feel com-
pelled to speak out.
On Tuesday, I spoke with the New
Hampshire Coalition Against Domestic
and Sexual Violence, which told me
that they have seen similar reactions
with survivors who are now stepping
forward—women and men whose trau-
ma of sexual assaults has been revived
by Christine Ford’s testimony.
Like my colleagues, I have received
letters from sexual assault survivors
who have been deeply affected by Dr.
Ford’s testimony and whose courage
has given them the strength to share
their own stories. What has been amaz-
ing to me as I have read them, when I
have heard from people who have con-
tacted our office, is that some of them
are in their seventies and eighties, and
they reveal decades-old sexual assaults
for the very first time.
These wounds are real. The wounds
are raw. And it is incumbent on all of
us in this body—regardless of where
you stand on Brett Kavanaugh—it is
incumbent on all of us to not deepen
those scars by diminishing the pain of
these women as political theater. This
is not political theater, and it should
not be viewed through a partisan lens.
In those emotional emails and calls
and letters from dozens of women and a
few men—I think sometimes we forget
that sexual assault doesn’t just happen
to women; it happens to men—they
have described their sexual assaults
and how they have been affected by the
events of Christine Ford’s testimony
and the hearing with Judge
Kavanaugh. In so many of those letters
and emails, they talk about the details
of what they experienced in those sex-
ual assaults—how it has affected them;
how it has affected their lives; the fact
that, in most cases, they didn’t tell
anybody because they didn’t feel they
would be believed or they thought they
would be demeaned or they thought it
was their fault.
What has been interesting to me in
those letters and emails has been that
so many of the people we have heard
from have not just told their personal
stories, but they have expressed their
concerns about the country as part of
writing in—concerns that we are so di-
vided, that we are so angry, that we are
so uncivil to one another. Sadly, they
are right, based on what they have seen
over the last couple of weeks. We have
seen that at political rallies over the
past few years, and we have seen it in
this building. We must do better. The
disunity that we model here is hurting
the country. The scorched-earth poli-
tics that have been practiced here are
deepening our divide.
I will oppose Judge Kavanaugh’s
nomination, and I continue to hope
that something may happen at the
eleventh hour; I know that is not like-
ly. But I also will encourage my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
think about this moment, to reflect on
our obligations to the American peo-
ple, to the U.S. Senate, and to consid-
ering future Supreme Court nominees.
So many people have said that this
process has undermined the faith of the
American people in the ability of the
Supreme Court to be an objective arbi-
ter of cases that come before them.
This process has inflamed existing di-
vides within our country and within
Congress, and we can’t let this become
the status quo. As an institution, as a
legislative body, we must be better
than this.
I have always been told that when we
are standing at the edge of an abyss,
the best step is always backward. So I
hope all of us can take a step back. I
hope we can take a step back when we
are past this nomination, that we can
return to a more civil discourse. I hope
that we can better try to understand
each other’s points of view and that we
can see each other’s humanity. I hope
that we can be better stewards of our
democracy because this country de-
mands it.
Thank you, Madam President.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I an-
nounced my decision to vote against
Judge Kavanaugh several weeks ago,
after meeting with him and after
studying his record, because he essen-
tially put his thumb on the scale in
support of corporate interests. He has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.048 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6676 October 5, 2018
consistently sided with corporate spe-
cial interests, large corporations that
outsource jobs over workers, and has
sided with Wall Street over consumers.
I made that decision before Dr. Ford
came forward, but I am grateful for
her. I am grateful she did, even at
great personal cost and personal risk. I
believe Dr. Ford. Why in the world
would someone do what she said—
again, at great personal cost and great
personal risk—if she weren’t telling the
truth precisely? I am grateful to her. I
am grateful for all of the brave women
inspired by her to speak out and share
their own stories. A number of them
have written to my office. A number of
them I have spoken to on the phone.
Some of them told us for the first time
in their lives, after—one woman was in
her seventies, and it was the first time
she had spoken of her sexual assault.
Please understand, all of the people,
all of the women and men—I have got-
ten letters from men, too, but mostly
women—understand. To all of you all
over the country: We see you. We hear
you. Your story matters, and you make
a difference.
It is wrong that political influence
and artificial deadlines put on them,
imposed by the majority leader down
the hall and the President of the
United States—artificial deadlines and
political influence prevented the FBI
from performing the complete and
thorough investigation the American
people deserve. Instead, Senate leaders
and the White House straightjacketed
the FBI.
I don’t blame the FBI. They only did
what Senate leaders—what Republican
leaders who wanted to ram this nomi-
nation through as quickly as possible
and the White House, which would
never want to compromise on anything
like this—they straightjacketed the
FBI. They kept our law enforcement
professionals from doing their job.
According to Dr. Ford’s lawyer, the
FBI didn’t even speak to more than a
dozen witnesses that Dr. Ford asked
them to interview. They are trying to
corroborate whether her story was
true, but the FBI then didn’t interview
Dr. Ford or Judge Kavanaugh, nor did
they interview the people Dr. Ford sug-
gested to them, the names that Dr.
Ford gave them, people who could cor-
roborate what happened. So the FBI
did not interview any of the people
that Dr. Ford asked or Dr. Ford herself.
Then my colleagues say that there is
no corroborating evidence, so she
didn’t do it, so we have to believe
Judge Kavanaugh. That is their logic:
The investigation—again, not because
the FBI didn’t want to do it right but
because of what leadership, what polit-
ical leadership, elected officials and bu-
reaucrats in the White House and the
Senate did to prevent the FBI from
doing its job—that is why that was a
scam.
So what really matters here? It real-
ly matters that we listen to women. It
also really matters because the Su-
preme Court has enormous influence
over the lives of everyone in my State.
Any nominee must defend the rights of
all Americans to have comprehensive
healthcare coverage and make their
own healthcare decisions, must defend
the rights of Americans to collectively
bargain for safe workplaces and fair
pay.
I don’t think my colleagues really
understand the process of collective
bargaining. I am working on a bipar-
tisan basis with a number of our col-
leagues on a pension bill right now. I
don’t know that our colleagues here
understand that people—when it comes
to pensions, they sit down at the bar-
gaining table, and they give up wages
today so they will have a secure retire-
ment. I am concerned about this Su-
preme Court’s rejection, potentially, of
collective bargaining rights and safe
workplaces and fair pay and fair bene-
fits. I am concerned about this Court in
terms of protecting American workers
and American consumers from dis-
crimination and, shall we say, Wall
Street greed.
I am troubled already by the Su-
preme Court’s recent decisions strip-
ping rights from Ohioans on many
issues. That is why I met with Judge
Kavanaugh before I made my decision
earlier this summer and why I asked
him about his views on the issues that
matter to Ohioans. I reviewed his
record. I am not a lawyer, but I pay a
lot of attention to these issues. I
looked at these decisions, and I lis-
tened to Ohioans who weighed in. It
was clear that I could not support
Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination to our
highest Court, again, because he puts
his thumb on the scale of justice, al-
ways with a bias toward corporate in-
terests over workers, over consumers.
On healthcare, you have heard Sen-
ator SHAHEEN, Senator MARKEY, Sen-
ator HASSAN; I listened late last night.
You have heard them talk about pre-
existing conditions. This Court is mov-
ing toward saying to the health insur-
ance industry: You can cancel the in-
surance of people with preexisting con-
ditions.
For 10 years, we have had consumer
protections. If you are a cancer sur-
vivor, if you have asthma, as my wife
had at a young age and has continued
to manage her asthma well—and she
has said very publicly that we can talk
about this—or if you have Parkinson’s
or any other preexisting condition—
heart disease or high blood pressure—
you are protected from the insurance
company canceling your insurance.
That has been the law for 10 years.
That law is under duress.
If this body votes to confirm Judge
Kavanaugh today, it means that 5 mil-
lion Ohioans—almost half of the people
in my State have a preexisting condi-
tion. It means they should be con-
cerned that this Supreme Court will
take away those consumer protections
and will say to the insurance company:
You can cancel somebody if they get
expensive. You can cancel somebody’s
insurance if you find out they had can-
cer. You can do all those things.
Its rulings and positions on the
rights of Ohio workers and women and
consumers would take us in exactly the
wrong direction. His nomination comes
when the stakes for working Ohioans
couldn’t be higher. He will talk about
settled law, but settled law is only set-
tled—again, I am not a lawyer, but this
is pretty obvious. Settled law is only
settled until the Supreme Court says it
isn’t. We know it with voter rights; we
know it just recently with worker
rights.
Last term, the Court issued a string
of anti-worker decisions. In Janus v.
AFSCME, the Court overturned dec-
ades of precedent—oh, yeah, settled
law—and limited the ability of public
sector unions to advocate for the work-
ers they serve. This is a Supreme Court
that almost always sides with corpora-
tions over unions, with corporations
over workers, with corporations over
consumers.
The decision in Epic Systems Corp v.
Lewis limited the ability of workers to
have their day in court when they are
mistreated by their employer. The
power already rests with employers on
all of these kinds of worker-employer
issues. This Court wants to make it
worse. Judge Kavanaugh’s record shows
that he will accelerate that direction.
This Court has proved time and again
that it stands on the side of powerful
corporations, not American workers.
We know what has happened in this
country. We know that profits have
gone up. We know that executive com-
pensation has exploded. We know that
productivity is up for workers, but we
know that workers’ wages have been
stagnant. So the top 1 percent or 5 per-
cent—they are doing great. They get
big tax cuts. They get stock dividend
buybacks. They get all kinds of breaks.
The fact is, workers have seen their
wages stagnate. This Court will make
it worse.
There are several cases next term
where the Court has the power to fun-
damentally tip the balance of power
even further toward corporations—
cases like Lamps Plus Inc. v. Varela, in
which the Court could rule on whether
a worker can file a class action suit
against an employer that violates her
privacy and releases personal informa-
tion to the public. An individual work-
er never has the power or the money to
hire an attorney to take on these com-
panies. That is why workers need to
band together to take on a powerful
company, a powerful employer, a pow-
erful corporation.
In another case, New Prime Inc. v.
Oliveira, the Court will decide whether
a worker who was misclassified as an
independent contractor can bring a
class action lawsuit, whether the Fed-
eral Arbitration Act applies to an inde-
pendent contractor agreement. In
other words, this Court has already
moved in the direction—as this Con-
gress did, by one vote, if I recall—of
giving corporations more power, in
saying to employees: Sorry, you don’t
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.050 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6677
October 5, 2018
get your day in court. Again, employ-
ees individually don’t have the finan-
cial wherewithal to be able to go to
court and hire a lawyer, but if the em-
ployees band together, they can. That
is what the issue of forced arbitration
is about. That is what Judge
Kavanaugh has consistently been
wrong about.
I have looked at his record. It is
clear, we can’t trust him to stand with
Ohio workers in any of these cases. He
has opposed basic protections for work-
ers trying to hold employers account-
able—cases like AFGE v. Gates. He has
consistently ruled against claims of
worker discrimination and worker safe-
ty violations. He has consistently ruled
against workers who stand up to cor-
porate mistreatment in cases like
Verizon New England v. National
Labor Relations Board.
His nomination also poses a serious
threat to the 5 million Americans
under age 65 with preexisting condi-
tions. Again, that is half of my State.
If you meet a 40- or a 50-year-old—if
you are in almost any group, you sit
there and you look to your right and
you look to your left, one of those two
people, on average, is going to have a
preexisting condition. Is their insur-
ance going to be jeopardized? It is with
this Congress, which wants to do this,
and this Supreme Court and this Presi-
dent want to strip away the consumer
protections for people with preexisting
conditions.
They want to give the insurance
companies the right to cancel your in-
surance. Oh, you have cancer? You cost
us a lot. I am the insurance company;
you cost us a lot. I am going to cancel
your insurance then because you cost
us too much money. You can’t do that
under present law. You can’t do that
because of the Affordable Care Act.
They will be able to do it if Judge
Kavanaugh gets on the Court because
you can bet the Court is moving in
that direction.
Consumer protections are under at-
tack in our court system right now
with the case of Texas v. United
States. It is likely going to make its
way to the Supreme Court, and Judge
Kavanaugh’s record on healthcare
gives us a pretty darned good clue how
he would rule.
He refused to uphold the entire law
that is constitutional—a law that says
if your child has diabetes or your
mother has asthma, the insurance com-
panies can’t raise your costs or turn
them away.
This is about the cost of health in-
surance. It is about saying all of us
want good insurance. All of us want to
be able—nobody wants to get sick. No-
body wants to have high healthcare
costs. The reason we have insurance is
so that people who get sick can make
sure they keep their insurance and can
have help. But the insurance compa-
nies—if they get their way now, they
may not deny you care if you have can-
cer; they will just raise your rates so
high that you will not be able to afford
it. There really is no difference.
Without these protections, insurance
companies will once again be free to
charge you five times the rate of your
neighbor. If you are sick, if you have
neighbors on both sides who aren’t,
they will raise your rates because you
are sick, if they have their way. We
can’t risk it. You are lucky enough to
be well; your neighbor is diagnosed
with high blood pressure; the other
neighbor, their child has epilepsy, and
their rates get raised, but yours don’t,
all because Judge Kavanaugh and this
Court and this Congress seem to want
it that way. We can’t risk Ohio fami-
lies not having access to care by send-
ing him to the Supreme Court.
It is not just on preexisting condi-
tions where he would pose a threat to
Ohio’s healthcare. Dozens of cases
pending in lower courts could deter-
mine the price you pay for healthcare
over the next few years or whether you
get care at all. Again, if the price is so
high, it is the same as denying you
care because you can’t afford it. There
are cases on everything from false ad-
vertising by insurance companies to
whether your employer is required to
give you access to healthcare.
Of course, we know that the stakes
are particularly high for women. That
was true before Dr. Ford courageously
came forward. It remains true. We
can’t risk the ability of Ohio women to
make their own personal private health
decisions between themselves and their
doctors by giving a lifetime appoint-
ment to a judge who has shown re-
peated hostility to women’s healthcare
freedom.
We know the promises President
Trump made when he was a candidate,
saying that he would put somebody on
the Supreme Court who would overturn
Roe v. Wade. We know the list of
judges he chose from, and the Fed-
eralist Society had that same commit-
ment to overturn Roe v. Wade. Any-
body in this body that thinks the judge
is promising that this is settled law
ought to use the cliche that I have a
bridge to sell you. It is clear what he is
going to do if he is on the Court.
This whole issue, this whole vote,
this whole nomination comes down to
this: Whose side are you on? Are you a
judge who stands on the side of work-
ers or multinational corporations? Will
you stand on the side of a mother seek-
ing treatment or on the side of insur-
ance companies who want to raise her
rates to deny her care?
Judge Kavanaugh’s record is clear.
He has consistently sided with the
most powerful special interests in this
country—not American workers, not
American consumers, not American pa-
tients who struggle with the cost of
their healthcare. The stakes for Ohio
are too high to give this judge a life-
time appointment to our highest
Court.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that several documents corrobo-
rating Dr. Ford’s allegations against
Judge Kavanaugh and a statement
from Dr. Ford’s attorneys be printed in
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
OCTOBER 5, 2018.
STATEMENT BY DEBRA S. KATZ, LISA J. BANKS
AND MICHAEL R. BROMWICH, ATTORNEYS FOR
DR. CHRISTINE BLASEY FORD
As the Senate debates the nomination of
Brett Kavanaugh, numerous false claims
have been repeated to undermine the credi-
bility of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford. Whatever
the outcome, Senators deserve to know the
truth:
1. An FBI investigation that did not in-
clude interviews of Dr. Ford and Judge
Kavanaugh is not a meaningful investigation
in any sense of the word.
2. Had the FBI interviewed Dr. Ford, she
would have answered questions about Judge
Kavanaugh’s assault, including questions
that Ms. Mitchell and the Judiciary Com-
mittee members failed to ask during the
hearing. She would have provided corrobo-
rating evidence, including her medical
records and access to the phone from which
she sent messages to a reporter about the as-
sault prior to his nomination to the Supreme
Court.
3. The suggestion that our refusal to give
medical records to the Judiciary Committee
bears on Dr. Ford’s credibility is completely
false. The Committee has released every doc-
ument we have exchanged, and in the case of
their letters to us, sometimes before we re-
ceived them. We lost confidence in the Com-
mittee’s ability or desire to maintain the
confidentiality of materials and information
we provided, especially with respect to some-
thing as sensitive as medical records.
4. Dr. Ford wanted to detail the events of
the sexual assault by Judge Kavanaugh di-
rectly to members of the Judiciary Com-
mittee. Dr. Ford was timely provided with
all communications from the Majority’s
staff and chose from the multiple options she
was given by them. At the hearing, Dr. Ford
understood Senator Grassley’s comment to
be that he personally would have flown to
California to speak with her. She would have
welcomed Senator Grassley and other Com-
mittee members to California but that was
not one of the options offered by Committee
staff.
5. At no time did members of Dr. Ford’s
team advise Committee staff that she could
not travel to Washington, D.C. because of
her fear of flying. Rather, staff was told that
Dr. Ford could not travel on the schedule the
Committee demanded because she was fo-
cused on taking measures to protect her
family from threats, including death threats.
Those measures included meeting with the
FBI to report these disturbing threats. In
fact, Dr. Ford does have a decades-long fear
of flying for which she takes medication pre-
scribed by a physician, but this had no im-
pact on the timing of her testimony.
6. Committee staff repeatedly rejected our
requests for multiple corroborating wit-
nesses to be allowed to testify, including
Jeremiah Hanafin, the highly experienced
former FBI agent who administered the poly-
graph to Dr. Ford on August 7, 2018. He was
also prepared to cooperate with the FBI’s in-
vestigation, including making the under-
lying polygraph results and process avail-
able. Had Mr. Hanafin been permitted to tes-
tify or been interviewed by the FBI, he
would have explained that his conclusions of
‘‘no deception’’ were validated by four inde-
pendent outside reviewers. There were seven
people whom Dr. Ford told about the assault
prior to the nomination who could have tes-
tified to the Committee or been interviewed
by the FBI.
In her testimony, Dr. Ford said: ‘‘It is not
my responsibility to determine whether Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.052 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6678 October 5, 2018
Kavanaugh deserves to sit on the Supreme
Court. My responsibility is to tell the
truth.’’
We believe Christine Blasey Ford and we
fully support her. Senators claiming to want
a dignified debate should not repeat lies con-
structed by the Judiciary Committee that
were cynically designed to win support for
Judge Kavanaugh.
JULY 30, 2018.
Confidential
Senator DIANNE FEINSTEIN.
DEAR SENATOR FEINSTEIN: I am writing
with information relevant in evaluating the
current nominee to the Supreme Court. As a
constituent, I expect that you will maintain
this as confidential until we have further op-
portunity to speak.
Brett Kavanaugh physically and sexually
assaulted me during High School in the early
1980’s. He conducted these acts with the as-
sistance of his close friend, Mark G. Judge.
Both were 1–2 years older than me and stu-
dents at a local private school. The assault
occurred in a suburban Maryland area home
at a gathering that included me and 4 others.
Kavanaugh physically pushed me into a bed-
room as I was headed for a bathroom up a
short stairwell from the living room. They
locked the door and played loud music, pre-
cluding any successful attempts to yell for
help. Kavanaugh was on top of me while
laughing with Judge, who periodically
jumped onto Kavanaugh. They both laughed
as Kavanaugh tried to disrobe me in their
highly inebriated state. With Kavanaugh’s
hand over my mouth, I feared he may inad-
vertently kill me. From across the room, a
very drunken Judge said mixed words to
Kavanaugh ranging from ‘‘go for it’’ to
‘‘stop’’. At one point when Judge jumped
onto the bed, the weight on me was substan-
tial. The pile toppled, and the two scrapped
with each other. After a few attempts to get
away, I was able to take this opportune mo-
ment to get up and run across to a hallway
bathroom. I locked the bathroom door be-
hind me. Both loudly stumbled down the
stairwell, at which point other persons at
the house were talking with them. I exited
the bathroom, ran outside of the house and
went home.
I have not knowingly seen Kavanaugh
since the assault. I did see Mark Judge once
at the Potomac Village Safeway, where he
was extremely uncomfortable seeing me.
I have received medical treatment regard-
ing the assault. On July 6, I notified my
local government representative to ask them
how to proceed with sharing this informa-
tion. It is upsetting to discuss sexual assault
and its repercussions, yet I felt guilty and
compelled as a citizen about the idea of not
saying anything.
I am available to speak further should you
wish to discuss. I am currently vacationing
in the mid-Atlantic until August 7th and will
be in California after August 10th.
In Confidence,
CHRISTINE BLASEY,
Palo Alto, California.
TEXT MESSAGES BETWEEN DR. FORD AND THE
WASHINGTON POST TIP LINE
FRIDAY, JULY 6, 2018
10:26 AM: Dr. Ford—Potential Supreme
Court nominee with assistance from his
friend assaulted me in mid 1980s in Mary-
land. Have therapy records talking about It.
Feel like I shouldn’t be quiet but not willing
to put family in DC and CA through a lot of
stress
11:47 AM: Dr. Ford—Brett Kavanaugh with
Mark Judge and a bystander named PJ.
TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
8:03 AM: Dr. Ford—Been advised to contact
senators or NYT. Haven’t heard back from
WaPo.
9:21 AM: Washington Post—I will get you
in touch with reporter
DECLARATION OF RUSSELL FORD
I, Russell Ford, hereby state that I am over
eighteen (18) years of age, am competent to
testify, and have personal knowledge of the
following facts:
1. I have a Master of Science degree and a
Doctor of Philosophy degree in mechanical
engineering from Stanford University.
2. I have been married to Christine Blasey
Ford since June 2002. We have two children.
3. The first time I learned that Christine
had any experience with sexual assault was
around the time we got married, although
she did not provide any details.
4. Christine shared the details of the sexual
assault during a couple’s therapy session in
2012. She said that in high school she had
been trapped in a room and physically re-
strained by one boy who was molesting her
while another boy watched. She said she was
eventually able to escape before she was
raped, but that the experience was very trau-
matic because she felt like she had no con-
trol and was physically dominated.
5. I remember her saying that the
attacker’s name was Brett Kavanaugh, that
he was a successful lawyer who had grown up
in Christine’s home town, and that he was
well-known in the Washington, D.C. commu-
nity.
6. In the years following the therapy ses-
sion, we spoke a number of times about how
the assault affected her.
7. The next time she mentioned that Mr.
Kavanaugh was the person who sexually as-
saulted her was when President Trump was
in the process of selecting his first nominee
for the Supreme Court. Before the President
had announced that Judge Neil Gorsuch was
the nominee, I remember Christine saying
she was afraid the President might nominate
Mr. Kavanaugh.
8. These conversations about Mr.
Kavanaugh started again shortly after Jus-
tice Anthony Kennedy announced his res-
ignation and the media began reporting that
Mr. Kavanaugh was on the President’s
‘‘short list.’’
9. Christine was very conflicted about
whether she should speak publicly about
what Mr. Kavanaugh had done to her, as she
knew it would be emotionally trying for her
to relive this traumatic experience in her
life and hard on our family to deal with the
inevitable public reaction. However, in the
end she believed her civic duty required her
to speak out.
10. In our 16 years of marriage I have al-
ways known Christine to be a truthful person
of great integrity. I am proud of her for her
bravery and courage.
I solemnly swear or affirm under the pen-
alties of perjury that the matters set forth
in this Declaration are true and correct to
the best of my personal knowledge, informa-
tion, and belief. Executed on this 25th day of
September, 2018.
RUSSELL FORD.
DECLARATION OF KEITH KOEGLER
I, Keith Koegler, hereby state that I am
over eighteen (18) years of age, am com-
petent to testify, and have personal knowl-
edge of the following facts:
1. I graduated from Amherst College in 1992
with a Bachelor’s Degree in History. I earned
my Juris Doctor degree from Vanderbilt Law
School in 1997.
2. I have known Christine Blasey Ford and
her husband, Russell Ford, for more than
five years, and consider them close friends.
3. We met when I was coaching their son’s
baseball team. Our children are close friends
and have played sports together for years. I
have spent a lot of time with Christine and
her husband traveling to and attending our
kids’ games. Our families have also gone on
vacation together.
4. The first time I learned that Christine
had experienced sexual assault was in early
summer of 2016. We were standing together
in a public place watching our children play
together.
5. I remember the timing of the conversa-
tion because it was shortly after Stanford
University student Brock Turner was sen-
tenced for felony sexual assault after raping
an unconscious woman on Stanford’s cam-
pus. There was a common public perception
that the judge gave Mr. Turner too light of
a sentence.
6. Christine expressed anger at Mr. Turn-
er’s lenient sentence, stating that she was
particularly bothered by it because she was
assaulted in high school by a man who was
now a federal judge in Washington, D.C.
7. Christine did not mention the assault to
me again until June 29, 2018, two days after
Justice Anthony Kennedy announced his res-
ignation from the Supreme Court of the
United States.
8. On June 29, 2018, she wrote me an email
in which she stated that the person who as-
saulted her in high school was the Presi-
dent’s ‘‘favorite for SCOTUS.’’
9. On June 29, 2018, I responded with an
email in which I stated:
‘‘I remember you telling me about him, but
I don’t remember his name. Do you mind
telling me so I can read about him?’’
10. Christine responded by email and stat-
ed:
‘‘Brett Kavanaugh’’
11. In all of my dealings with Christine I
have known her to be a serious and honor-
able person.
I solemnly swear or affirm under the pen-
alties of perjury that the matters set forth
in this Declaration are true and correct to
the best of my personal knowledge, informa-
tion, and belief. Executed on this 24th day of
September, 2018.
KEITH KOEGLER.
DECLARATION OF ADELA GILDO-MAZZON
I, Adela Gildo-Mazzon, hereby state that I
am over eighteen (18) years of age, am com-
petent to testify, and have personal knowl-
edge of the following facts:
1. I have known Christine Blasey Ford for
over 10 years and consider her to be a good
friend. Our children attended elementary
school together.
2. In June of 2013, Christine and I met at a
restaurant that was then called Pizzeria
Venti Mountain View, located at 1390 Pear
Avenue, Mountain View, California.
3. I remembered the year of the meeting
because I was temporarily working in the
South Bay at that time. I would pass Moun-
tain View on my way home, so that res-
taurant was a convenient place to arrange a
meeting. I believe this was the only time I
ever went to this restaurant. I also have a
receipt from the restaurant from that meal.
4. During our meal, Christine was visibly
upset, so I asked her what was going on.
5. Christine told me she had been having a
hard day because she was thinking about an
assault she experienced when she was much
younger. She said that she had been almost
raped by someone who was now a federal
judge. She told me she had been trapped in a
room with two drunken guys, and that she
then escaped, ran away, and hid.
6. Christine said it was a scary situation
and that it has impacted her life ever since.
7. The last time I saw Christine was in May
2018.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06OC6.010 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6679
October 5, 2018
8. After reading her first person account of
the assault in The Washington Post on Sep-
tember 16, 2018, I contacted Christine’s law-
yers to advise them that she had told me
about this assault in 2013.
I solemnly swear or affirm under the pen-
alties of perjury that the matters set forth
in this Declaration are true and correct to
the best of my personal knowledge, informa-
tion, and belief. Executed on this 24th day
September, 2018.
ADELA GILDO-MAZZON.
DECLARATION OF REBECCA WHITE
I, Rebecca White, hereby state that I am
over (18) years of age, am competent to tes-
tify, and have personal knowledge of the fol-
lowing facts:
1. I have been friends with Christine Blasey
Ford for more than six years. We are neigh-
bors and our kids went to the same elemen-
tary school.
2. In 2017, I was walking my dog and Chris-
tine was outside of her house. I stopped to
speak with her, and she told me she had read
a recent social media post I had written
about my experience with sexual assault.
3. She then told me that when she was a
young teen, she had been sexually assaulted
by an older teen. I remember her saying that
her assailant was now a federal judge.
4. I have always known Christine to be a
trustworthy and honest person.
I solemnly swear or affirm under the pen-
alties of perjury that the matters set forth
in this Declaration are true and correct to
the best of my personal knowledge, informa-
tion, and belief. Executed on this 25 day of
Sept, 2018.
REBECCA WHITE.
JEREMIAH P. HANAFIN—POLYGRAPH
EXAMINATION REPORT
Date of Report—08/10/2018.
Date of Examination—08/07/2018.
Location of Examination—Hilton Hotel,
1739 West Nursery Road, Linthicum Heights,
MD 21090.
Examinee’s Name—Christine Blasey.
Synopsis—On August 7, 2018, Christine
Blasey reported to the Hilton Hotel, 1739
West Nursery Road, Linthicum Heights, MD
21090, for the purpose of undergoing a poly-
graph examination. The examination was to
address whether Blasey was physically as-
saulted by Brett Kavanaugh while attending
a small party in Montgomery County, MD.
This assault occurred in the 1980’s when
Blasey was a high school student at the Hol-
ton-Arms School. Accompanying Blasey was
Attorney Lisa Banks of the firm Katz, Mar-
shall & Banks. After introductions were
made, this examiner left the room so Blasey
and Attorney Banks could discuss this mat-
ter. During this discussion, Blasey provided
a written statement to Banks detailing the
events that occurred on the evening of the
assault. The statement was provided to this
examiner when he returned. Blasey stated
that the statement was true and correct and
signed it in the presence of this examiner
and Banks attesting to its accuracy. A copy
of this statement is attached to this report.
After a brief discussion, Banks departed.
Blasey was then interviewed in an effort to
formulate the relevant questions. During
this interview, Blasey described the events
that occurred on the night of the assault.
She stated she attended a small party at a
house where the parents were not home.
Those attending the party were drinking
beer. Blasey stated that Kavanaugh and his
friend, Mark, became extremely intoxicated.
Blasey stated that she had met Kavanaugh
before at previous parties and she briefly
dated one of his friends. She stated that
Kavanaugh attended Georgetown Pre-
paratory School and she previously attended
parties hosted by students of this school.
Blasey remembers another male at this
party, PJ, who she described as a very nice
person. At some point in the evening, Blasey
went upstairs to use the restroom. When she
got upstairs, she was pushed into a bedroom
by either Kavanaugh or his friend, Mark.
The bedroom was located across from the
bathroom. She was pushed onto a bed and
Kavanagh got on top of her and attempted to
take her clothes off. She stated she expected
Kavanaugh was going to rape her. Blasey
tried to yell for help and Kavanaugh put his
hand over her mouth. Blasey thought if PJ
heard her yelling he may come and help her.
Blasey stated that when Kavanaugh put his
hand over her mouth that this act was the
most terrifying for her. She also stated that
this act caused the most consequences for
her later in life. Blasey stated that
Kavanaugh and Mark were laughing a lot
during this assault and seemed to be having
a good time. Kavanaugh was having a hard
time trying to remove Blasey’s clothes be-
cause she was wearing a bathing suit under-
neath them. She stated Mark was laughing
and coaxing Kavanaugh on. Blasey recalls
making eye contact with Mark and thinking
he may help her. Mark continued to encour-
age Kavanaugh. On a couple of occasions,
Mark would come over and jump on the bed.
The last time he did this, all three became
separated and Blasey was able to get free and
run to the bathroom. She stated she locked
herself in the bathroom until she heard
Kavanaugh and Mark go downstairs.
Following this interview, Blasey was given
a polygraph examination consisting of the
following relevant questions:
SERIES I
A. Is any part of your statement false? An-
swer: No
B. Did you make up any part of your state-
ment? Answer: No
Four polygraph charts (which included an
acquaintance or ‘‘stim’’ chart) were col-
lected using a Dell Inspiron 15 notebook
computer and Lafayette LX4000 software.
This software obtained tracings representing
thoracic and abdominal respiration, galvanic
skin response, and cardiac activity. All of
these physiological tracings were stored in
the computer along with the time that the
questions were asked as well as text of each
question.
The format of the test was the two ques-
tion Federal You Phase Zone Comparison
Test (ZCT). As part of a 2011 meta-analysis
study done by the American Polygraph Asso-
ciation (APA), the ZCT is one of the poly-
graph examinations considered valid based
upon defined research protocol. As part of
the validation process, the APA chose tech-
niques that were reported in the Meta 22
Analytic Survey of Validated Techniques
(2011) as having two, independent studies
that describe the criterion validity and reli-
ability. The ZCT includes relevant questions
addressing the issues to be resolved by the
examination, comparison questions to be
used in analysis, symptomatic questions, and
neutral or irrelevant questions. All questions
were reviewed with Blasey prior to the test.
The charts collected were subjected to a nu-
merical evaluation that scored the relative
strength of physiological reactions to rel-
evant questions with those of the compari-
son questions. An analysis was conducted
using a three (3) point scale (¥1, 0, +1). If re-
actions were deemed to be greater at the rel-
evant questions, then a negative score was
assigned. If responses were deemed to be
greater at the comparison questions, then a
positive score was assigned. A decision of de-
ceptive is rendered if any individual question
score is ¥3 or less or the grand total of both
questions is ¥4 or less. A decision of non-de-
ceptive is rendered if the grand total of both
questions is +4 or more with a +1 or more at
each question.
Blasey’s scores utilizing the three (3) point
scale are +4 at Question A and +5 at Question
B with a total score of +9. Based upon this
analysis, it is the professional opinion of this
examiner that Blasey’s responses to the
above relevant questions are Not Indicative
of Deception.
A second analysis was conducted utilizing
a scoring algorithm developed by Raymond
Nelson, Mark Handler and Donald Krapohl
(Objective Scoring System Version 3) which
concluded ‘‘No Significant Reactions—Prob-
ability these results were produced by a de-
ceptive person is .002.’’ Truthful results, re-
ported as ‘‘No Significant Reactions,’’ occur
when the observed p-value indicates a statis-
tically significant difference between the ob-
served numerical score and that expected
from deceptive test subjects, using nor-
mative data obtained through bootstrap
training with the confirmed single issue ex-
aminations from the development sample.
Truthful results can only occur when the
probability of deception is less than .050.
Deceptive results, in which an observed p-
value indicates a statistically significant dif-
ference between the observed numerical
score and that expected from truthful per-
sons, and are reported as ‘‘Significant Reac-
tions.’’
When the observed p-value fails to meet
decision alpha thresholds for truthful or de-
ceptive classification the test result will be
reported as ‘‘Inconclusive.’’ No opinion can
be rendered regarding those results.
A third analysis was conducted utilizing a
scoring algorithm developed by the Johns
Hopkins University Applied Physics Labora-
tory (PolyScore Version 7.0) which concluded
‘‘No Deception Indicated—Probability of De-
ception is Less Than .02.’’
One high school summer in 80’s, I went to
a small party in the Montgomery County
area. There were 4 boys and a couple of girls.
At one point, I went up a small stairwell to
use the restroom. At that time, I was pushed
into a bedroom and was locked in the room
and rushed onto a bed. Two boys were in the
room. Brett laid on top of me and tried to re-
move my clothes while groping me. He held
me down and put his hand on my mouth to
stop me from screaming for help. His friend
Mark was also in the room and both were
laughing. Mark jumped on top of us 2 or 3
times. I tried to get out from under unsuc-
cessfully. Then Mark jumped again and we
toppled over. I managed to run out of the
room across, to the bathroom and lock the
door. Once I heard them go downstairs, I ran
out of the house and went home.
CHRISTINE BLASEY,
August 7, 2018.
Mr. BROWN. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. BAR-
RASSO). Pursuant to rule IV, paragraph
2, the hour of 12 noon having arrived,
the Senate having been in continuous
session since yesterday, the Senate will
suspend for a prayer from the Senate
chaplain.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal Lord God, who rules the rag-
ing of the sea, our thoughts are not
Your thoughts and our ways are not
Your ways. As the Heavens are higher
than the Earth, so are Your thoughts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06OC6.012 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6680 October 5, 2018
higher than our thoughts and Your
ways higher than our ways.
We thank You for those who know
that this is not the time for summer
soldiers and sunshine patriots. Today,
help our lawmakers approach their de-
cisions with confidence by claiming
Your promise in James 1:5–6. In that
promise, You said to people of faith, ‘‘If
you need wisdom, if you want to know
what God wants you to do, ask him and
He will gladly tell you. He will not re-
sent your asking. But when you ask, be
sure that you really expect him to an-
swer.’’
Lord, may this great promise illu-
minate the path of those who realize
that you are the only constituent they
absolutely must please.
We pray in the Name of Him who is
the truth. Amen.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, like
so many of us here, I have been watch-
ing and listening to my colleagues
speak on the floor about the Judge
Kavanaugh nomination for several
days.
Like so many of my colleagues, I
want to commend Senator COLLINS of
Maine for her thorough, detailed, and
eloquent remarks yesterday. Some-
times a Member gives a speech that we
know will always be remembered be-
cause of its thoroughness, its serious-
ness, its thoughtfulness, and states-
manlike quality. I think we all are in
agreement that that happened yester-
day with Senator COLLINS. I also want
to highlight the remarks of my very
good friend Senator MURKOWSKI last
night. While we voted differently yes-
terday and we will most likely do so
again in a few hours, she made some
important points, particularly regard-
ing some of the issues surrounding this
confirmation process as it relates to
our great State of Alaska. I very much
appreciate her friendship, and, like so
many, I know this process has been dif-
ficult for her, and she talked about
that last night. In fact, for millions of
Americans and, no doubt, for thou-
sands of Alaskans, the process to con-
firm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the
U.S. Supreme Court has been a searing
one—certainly for Judge Kavanaugh
and his family and for Dr. Christine
Blasey Ford and her family, and for
this Senate family, it has been a dif-
ficult period. It has also evoked very
traumatic memories of experiences
that far too many women in Alaska
and America have had—far too many. I
am hopeful that in the aftermath of all
this, we can go through a much needed
period of healing.
As you know, the advise and consent
responsibility of the Senate is a solemn
one, one of the most important respon-
sibilities we have here. The process I
went through in order to cast my vote
for Judge Kavanaugh has been exten-
sive and thorough and, I believe, fair,
which is what I believe my constitu-
ents back home in Alaska demand of
me.
After the President announced Judge
Kavanaugh’s nomination, I read hun-
dreds of pages of decisions that he au-
thored. I listened to the views of Alas-
kans and continued to do so up until
yesterday, those who we were in favor,
those who opposed.
In my first meeting several weeks
ago with Judge Kavanaugh, we dis-
cussed at length and in great depth his
viewpoint on a variety of national and
Alaska-focused legal issues.
Now that wasn’t the first time I had
met Judge Kavanaugh. In fact, I had
known him back when we served to-
gether in the Bush Administration. I
knew him as an honest and dedicated
public servant, and I actually followed
his career as a judge on the DC Circuit
Court of Appeals.
The lengthy meeting in my office
convinced me that he is someone who
will interpret the law and the Constitu-
tion as written. He understands the im-
portance of separation of powers and
federalism and holds a healthy skep-
ticism regarding the expansive power
of Federal agency, and he is a strong
protector of the Second Amendment.
These are all issues that are very im-
portant to my constituents and that
they care deeply about, which is why I
focused on these issues in my discus-
sions with Judge Kavanaugh in my of-
fice several weeks ago. I was convinced
then and remain so that he is well
qualified to be a Justice on the U.S.
Supreme Court.
As we all know, after a number of
these meetings—several weeks, in my
case, after meeting with Judge
Kavanaugh—two issues arose that I
took very seriously. The first was a
claim that, if confirmed, Judge
Kavanaugh would not fully recognize
or respect the rights of Alaskan Native
people and the U.S. Government’s trust
responsibilities to them. This is very
important to constituents of mine. The
Alaska Federation of Natives, a very
important group back home in Alaska
that represents the Native people of
my great State, wrote a memo specu-
lating how Judge Kavanaugh, if con-
firmed, would threaten unique laws and
programs for the Alaskan Native peo-
ple.
The second issue that arose, of
course, which we have been debating
here and the country is fully aware of,
was the allegation that Judge
Kavanaugh sexually assaulted Dr. Ford
in 1982 when she was 15 and he was 17.
Like many Senators, I put my heart
and soul investigating such claims,
particularly given how important both
of these issues were to my constitu-
ents, and I want to address each of
these in turn.
The memo of the Alaska Federation
of Natives, or AFN, as we call it back
home, was focused on concerns stem-
ming from an amicus brief written by
Judge Kavanaugh 18 years ago, when he
was a private attorney, in a case deal-
ing with indigenous Hawaiians before
the Supreme Court called Rice v.
Cayetano, in which the U.S. Supreme
Court in a 7-to-2 opinion essentially
agreed with Judge Kavanaugh’s posi-
tion.
Alaska Natives make up roughly 20
percent of my State. They are incred-
ible Americans—patriotic, hard-work-
ing, a beautiful culture—and their
legal and sovereign rights, which are
based on the U.S. Constitution and
Federal statutes, have been extremely
hard-fought, including in this body,
over decades. Such rights are funda-
mental to the health and well-being of
Alaska Natives in my State.
After the AFN legal memo and simi-
lar letters and op-eds were published
back home, in Alaska, I sent them to
the White House for Judge
Kavanaugh’s review. I then spoke di-
rectly to him about these issues. He re-
iterated to me in a thoughtful and
thorough discussion that the legal
rights of Alaska Natives, to include
Tribes and regional and village cor-
porations, are very clear and well es-
tablished in the law, which is actually
different from the situation of indige-
nous Hawaiians. Therefore, the views
expressed by the Supreme Court in the
Cayetano opinion, which limit the
rights of Native Hawaiians, do not ex-
tend to Alaska Natives and are not ap-
plicable legally in any way in Alaska.
This is because Congress has repeat-
edly and explicitly recognized the
rights and the Tribal status for Alaska
Natives, including the Federal Govern-
ment’s trust responsibility, while, un-
fortunately, in my view, Congress has
not done the same for Native Hawai-
ians.
Senator MURKOWSKI was on the floor
last night. I am going to talk a little
bit about that, but I think the Alaska
delegation has always tried to be sup-
portive of the Hawaiian Nation in this
regard, and we continue to be, but, le-
gally, they are very different.
In response to a question for the
record to Judge Kavanaugh released by
the Senate Judiciary Committee,
Judge Kavanaugh unequivocally en-
dorsed this point. He stated—this is his
language:
The Supreme Court has recognized that
Congress has the ability to fulfill its treaty
obligations with Native Alaskan Regional
and Village Corporations and American In-
dian Tribes through legislation specifically
addressed to their concerns. Unlike indige-
nous peoples of Hawaii, Congress has explic-
itly recognized in statute that ‘‘Indian
Tribe’’ includes any recognized Indian or
Alaska Native tribe, band nation, pueblo, vil-
lage or community. . . . Native Alaskans are
Indian Tribes and therefore enjoy all the rel-
evant rights and benefits that come in their
trust relationship with the United States.
In my conversations with Judge
Kavanaugh about Alaska Native legal
issues, he also reiterated a point em-
phasized by Chief Justice Roberts in
the recent Supreme Court case called
the Sturgeon case that because of Fed-
eral statutes like the Alaska Native
Claims Settlement Act and the Alaska
National Interest Lands Conservation
Act, Congress has repeatedly made
clear that Alaska is different in many
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.054 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6681
October 5, 2018
ways from the lower 48, and he recog-
nized and told me as part of this con-
firmation process that many legal
issues involving my State need to be
viewed through that lens.
To be perfectly clear, if I believed or
saw evidence that Judge Kavanaugh’s
views were somehow opposed to or hos-
tile to Alaska Natives—a very impor-
tant population of my State that hap-
pens to include my wife and my three
daughters and my mother-in-law—I
would not support his confirmation. I
told Judge Kavanaugh this directly,
but that I was also satisfied with his
response after we had this discussion—
a deep, detailed discussion about these
issues.
Importantly, Senator MURKOWSKI
came to the same conclusion in her dis-
cussions with Judge Kavanaugh and
she said as much in her remarks last
night.
Of course, there is another allega-
tion, a claim that I want to talk about
this afternoon—the allegation that has
been the focus of much attention here
in the Senate regarding sexual assault,
which I likewise took extremely seri-
ously.
I respect very much Dr. Ford’s brav-
ery and sincerity in coming forward to
testify in front of the Judiciary Com-
mittee. I am convinced that she went
through a traumatic experience that
has left deep wounds. I also applaud the
bravery of the men and women who
have called and written and visited my
office to share their experiences in this
regard. So much of this has been very
painful for so many to revisit these epi-
sodes.
As I repeatedly stated, any allega-
tion—all allegations—of this kind of
conduct should be seriously looked at.
So I undertook the due diligence that
my constituents expect of me and that
is required in the Senate’s important
advise and consent role. I watched the
Senate Judiciary hearing on this issue
gavel to gavel. I read every piece of in-
formation available, including all of
the interviews conducted under the
penalty of perjury by the Senate Judi-
ciary Committee investigators. I read
text messages, threads, witness state-
ments, letters between the Committee
and lawyers who have been involved,
and confidential committee docu-
ments. I supported and read the profes-
sional and thorough supplemental FBI
report recently submitted to the Sen-
ate which looked deeper into this alle-
gation and spoke to additional wit-
nesses in relation to it. Most impor-
tantly, I met with and heard from hun-
dreds of Alaskans who have suffered
from sexual abuse and domestic vio-
lence. Many flew thousands of miles—
most on a moment’s notice—to come to
my office to meet with me and Senator
MURKOWSKI. I applaud their bravery
and their passion. So much of this
process has been painful for them.
Alaska is an amazing State. I come
down to the floor all the time to talk
about its majesty and beauty and our
wonderful people, and I believe that in
my soul. But one area where we are not
so great or wonderful or majestic is
this. My State has the highest rates of
sexual assault and domestic violence in
the country, by far, in almost every
category. It is a horrible, horrible
thing, and it impacts so many families
in the Last Frontier, horribly.
Throughout my public career in Alas-
ka, I have worked to combat sexual as-
sault and domestic violence by putting
more offenders in jail, bringing more
resources to survivors, including much
needed legal services, and raising
awareness of this heinous problem by
working to change the culture of vio-
lence, which is too pervasive in my
State. We have a lot more work to do
on this issue in Alaska and across
America, including on our college cam-
puses, and I applaud Senator GILLI-
BRAND for her leadership in this area
and many other Senators as well.
The allegations by Dr. Ford have
been difficult and wrenching here in
the Senate to address. One thing is
clear to me. Her allegations had been
taken seriously, as they should have
been.
Mr. President, I have a summary
from the Judiciary Committee on its
investigation into these and other alle-
gations that I would ask unanimous
consent that it be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
SUMMARY OF SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
INVESTIGATION
(as of October 4, 2018)
BACKGROUND
The Senate Judiciary Committee has en-
gaged in a thorough and robust investigation
of allegations raised against Judge
Kavanaugh. Throughout the last month,
Committee staff members have collected
statements, letters, and calls from individ-
uals around the country. The reports range
from substantive allegations of sexual mis-
conduct, to short messages to senators pass-
ing along internet rumors and theories.
Committee staff continue to work tire-
lessly to pursue any and all substantive
leads. In the course of the continuing inves-
tigation, staff members have spoken with 35
individuals, a task that requires extensive
work during nights and weekends. More than
20 Committee staffers have contributed to
the investigative efforts. The Committee has
not received any evidence that would cor-
roborate the claims made by Dr. Ford, Ms.
Ramirez, Ms. Swetnick, or anybody else.
ALLEGATIONS AND SUBJECTS
Ford Allegations
In response to Dr. Ford’s allegations, Com-
mittee staff repeatedly requested an oppor-
tunity to interview Dr. Ford, but her lawyers
repeatedly refused. Committee staff offered
to fly to California or any other location to
interview Dr. Ford. But as Dr. Ford ex-
plained at her hearing, she was not clear
that this offer had been made.
The Committee thus reopened the hearing
on Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination.
During the additional hearing day (Day 5),
the Committee solicited more than 8 total
hours of public testimony under oath from
Dr. Ford and Judge Kavanaugh.
In connection with the hearing, the Com-
mittee collected 24 pages of evidence from
Dr. Ford in two productions. The Committee
also received Judge Kavanaugh’s calendars.
The Committee also received a statement,
submitted under penalty of felony, from Dr.
Ford’s ex-boyfriend, who cast serious doubt
on the credibility of some of Dr. Ford’s testi-
mony before the Committee.
Notably, he stated that he had not known
her to have any fear of flying or related
claustrophobia and that she had previously
provided advice to someone on how to suc-
cessfully take a polygraph, directly contra-
dicting her hearing testimony.
Despite repeated requests by the Chair-
man, Dr. Ford still has not supplied several
key items, including the charts from her
polygraph examination, any recording of her
polygraph examination, and the therapy
notes that she claimed corroborated her
story. Dr. Ford has not provided these ther-
apy notes to the Committee, even though she
shared these same notes with the media.
In addition to conducting the hearing, the
Committee obtained statements from the
three individuals who Dr. Ford identified as
being present at the 1982 gathering: PJ
Smyth, Leland Ingham Keyser, and Mark
Judge (who submitted two statements).
Each person denied having any knowledge
of the alleged gathering. Ms. Keyser stated
that she does not even know Judge
Kavanaugh and does not recall ever meeting
him. And Mr. Smyth and Mr. Judge each said
they had never witnessed Judge Kavanaugh
engage in conduct of the kind described by
Dr. Ford.
The Committee contacted a total of 15
former classmates of Judge Kavanaugh and
Dr. Ford. The Committee also received sev-
eral statements, signed under penalty of fel-
ony, that support Judge Kavanaugh’s expla-
nation of terms in his high school yearbook.
Finally, prior to Day 5 of the hearing, the
Committee staff conducted a transcribed
telephone interview with Judge Kavanaugh
regarding Dr. Ford’s allegations. The Minor-
ity staff refused to attend.
Ramirez Allegations
In response to the allegations from Ms. Ra-
mirez, the Committee contacted Ms. Rami-
rez’s counsel 7 times seeking evidence to sup-
port the claims made in The New Yorker.
Ms. Ramirez produced nothing in response.
Ms. Ramirez’s counsel refused the Commit-
tee’s request for an interview. Committee
staff nevertheless pursued the investigation.
Staff interviewed 5 witnesses with relevant
information. Committee staff also inves-
tigated the public statements of 3 other indi-
viduals and found they had no knowledge of
the alleged event.
Prior to Day 5 of the hearing, Committee
staff conducted a transcribed telephone
interview with Judge Kavanaugh, subject to
penalty of felony. He denied Ms. Ramirez’s
allegations. Minority staff attended the
interview under protest and refused to par-
ticipate.
Swetnick Allegations
In response to allegations by Ms.
Swetnick, the Committee requested evidence
on 6 occasions from her. Ms. Swetnick re-
fused the Committee’s request for an inter-
view. Despite this obstruction, Committee
staff attempted to pursue the investigation
by interviewing 12 witnesses who claimed to
have relevant information. Committee staff
obtained two sworn statements from individ-
uals with knowledge of Ms. Swetnick’s char-
acter and allegations.
Prior to Day 5 of the hearing, Committee
staff also interviewed Judge Kavanaugh on
these allegations on two separate tran-
scribed telephone interviews, subject to pen-
alty of felony—both before (when Ms. Rami-
rez’s allegations were also discussed) and
after Ms. Swetnick was identified by name.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.057 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6682 October 5, 2018
Judge Kavanaugh denied Ms. Swetnick’s al-
legations, asserting that he does not even
know Ms. Swetnick. Minority staff attended
the interview under protest and refused to
participate.
Anonymous Allegation from Colorado
In response to an anonymous allegation
claiming Judge Kavanaugh pushed his
girlfriend against a wall in a violent and sex-
ual manner in 1998, Committee staff obtained
a sworn statement from the woman dating
Judge Kavanaugh at the time. She unequivo-
cally denied that this incident ever took
place.
Committee staff also questioned Judge
Kavanaugh on these allegations during a
transcribed telephone interview, subject to
penalty of felony. Like his then-girlfriend,
he denied that the incident ever took place.
Minority staff attended but refused to par-
ticipate in the interview.
Allegations by Others
The author of one allegation recanted in a
public Tweet. The Committee referred the
individual to the FBI for possible violations
of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1001 (materially false state-
ments) and 1505 (obstruction of congres-
sional-committee proceedings). Committee
staff questioned Judge Kavanaugh about the
allegation during a transcribed telephone
interview, subject to penalty of felony. He
unequivocally denied the allegation. Minor-
ity staff attended but refused to participate
in the interview.
A second allegation was completely anony-
mous. Committee staff questioned Judge
Kavanaugh about the allegation during a
transcribed telephone interview, subject to
penalty of felony. He unequivocally denied
the allegation. Minority staff attended but
refused to participate in the interview. A
woman has subsequently begun contacting
Senate offices, claiming to be the author of
the anonymous letter. Even though there are
doubts about the authenticity of her claim,
Committee staff is investigating.
CONCLUSION
The Committee’s investigation, like the
FBI supplemental background investigation,
has found that there is no corroboration of
the allegations made against Judge
Kavanaugh.
Mr. SULLIVAN. This report shows a
staff of over 20 members of the Judici-
ary Committee literally working
around the clock for weeks on all
leads—any lead that came in on these
serious allegations. These investigators
have the authority of the law. When
people speak to them, if people speak
to them and lie, they commit perjury.
They spoke to more than 35 individ-
uals, pursuing any and all substantive
leads. This is in addition to the FBI re-
port.
I want to commend Chairman GRASS-
LEY for this serious and diligent work
in this regard and the work of the Com-
mittee. It wasn’t highlighted a lot, but
it is very serious work. A lot of it is de-
tailed here.
Two important points stand out from
this work. First, the Committee has
not obtained or received any evidence
that would corroborate the claims
made by Dr. Ford. They talked to and
tried to pursue leads in so many dif-
ferent areas. Dr. Ford’s allegations
were investigated respectfully and
thoroughly by this Senate Judiciary
staff and the FBI. As I mentioned, she
certainly had courage in coming for-
ward. Nevertheless, these allegations
were not corroborated.
Four people Dr. Ford claims were
present had no knowledge or memory
of any such event, and the others the
FBI asked about the alleged incident
had no knowledge either. One of them
was a lifelong friend of Dr. Ford’s. Le-
land Kaiser said she didn’t even know
Judge Kavanaugh. As you know, all
these statements were made under the
penalty of perjury.
Another important point from the
Judiciary Committee summary—again,
I would suggest people take a look at it
given the seriousness of the allegations
and the seriousness of the investiga-
tion—that has not been picked up on is
that the minority staff of the com-
mittee, those representing my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle,
refused to participate in most of these
investigations, sometimes not attend-
ing any interviews at all, and when
they did, they refused to ask questions.
This is truly a mystery to me.
One of the constant refrains and ar-
guments—and I am saying it has been
in good faith from my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle, which con-
tinues today—is the need for more in-
vestigations into the allegations
against Judge Kavanaugh. They have
been making that argument very regu-
larly. Yet when you read what hap-
pened in the committee, they have re-
fused to take part in almost any part
of the intensive ongoing investigations
from the Judiciary Committee staff in-
vestigators of which there are 20. They
have been working on this diligently.
I am not a member of the Judiciary
Committee, but it is my understanding
that this is a very significant break
from past bipartisan investigations
that have almost always occurred on
the Judiciary Committee for every
other previous Supreme Court nomi-
nee, so I am not sure why this hap-
pened. Perhaps one of my colleagues
can explain it, but it does make one
wonder. Where does this leave us?
As Alaska’s former attorney general
and now as a Senator, I strongly be-
lieve in ensuring perpetrators of sexual
assault pay a very serious penalty. I
oversaw prosecutors who put such
criminals away for decades and even
indicted an alleged rapist according to
his DNA sequencing in order to hold
the statute of limitations for such a
crime when we couldn’t physically lo-
cate the alleged perpetrator.
I also believe in the presumption of
innocence, the sacrosanct and funda-
mental American principle, whether in
a criminal trial, a Senate committee
hearing, or the court of public opinion.
I am convinced due process should
apply as much to the Senate’s advice
and consent responsibility as it should
in a court of law. If we lose this basic
concept of fairness, then we risk doing
irreparable damage to the very founda-
tion of our democracy and core concep-
tions of American justice and even lib-
erty. We do not want a system of
guilty until proven innocent in Amer-
ica. Such a principle can lead to
incentivizing false accusations that do
lasting damage, especially when cou-
pled with breathless media reports that
repeat verbatim such charges.
Unfortunately, we have seen this
phenomenon during this confirmation
process. Now, I am not referring to the
allegations of Dr. Ford, which were
taken seriously, but in the aftermath
of her allegations, some horrendous,
and what appear to be patently false,
claims were made against Judge
Kavanaugh. Such false allegations do
tremendous damage to the accused and
his or her family, but just as bad, they
also risk undermining the credibility
of true victims and true survivors of
sexual assault. This is something that
has been overlooked, I believe, in these
discussions.
One of the most disheartening as-
pects of this confirmation process has
been how some of my Senate col-
leagues and members of the media were
so quick to publicly embrace some of
the most outrageous and incredible
claims made against Judge Kavanaugh,
like, for example, he participated in
the drugging and raping of women as a
teenage boy. A senior Member of the
Judiciary Committee referenced this
sickening allegation in her opening
statement in one of the hearings. The
immediate damage to the accused and
to his family by such a charge which
reverberated across the Nation was ob-
vious. Less obvious but perhaps more
damaging—as so many are in the long
run—is how such false claims under-
mine the ability of true victims and
real survivors with real claims of sex-
ual assault to get justice, to be be-
lieved.
I certainly hope this is not one of the
outcomes of this dysfunctional con-
firmation hearing process, but it un-
derscores how and why the entire sys-
tem of American justice and fairness
can be undermined if we abandon the
presumption of innocence.
Finally, I again want to thank and
applaud so many of the women in par-
ticular, including so many Alaskans,
who flew to DC, who have spoken out
about this nomination, and have
shared stories about their very difficult
experiences with assault. I know from
being in meetings with them and hear-
ing from them and listening and read-
ing, that this process has brought fresh
and painful and difficult memories for
so many. I want them to know that
from the bottom of my heart, I am
committed more than ever to work on
combating these horrible crimes in do-
mestic violence and trying to change
the culture in our Nation to one of re-
spect.
Indeed, if there is a silver lining to
come out of this contentious confirma-
tion process, it is that the awareness
and commitment to do more to combat
these horrible crimes has been height-
ened. I have heard this from many of
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle
in the past few days—including Sen-
ators MURKOWSKI, COLLINS, HARRIS, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06OC6.003 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6683
October 5, 2018
KLOBUCHAR—and I am certainly com-
mitted to working with all of them to
make this happen.
At the same time, I do not agree with
some of the comments made on the
floor that a vote in favor of Judge
Kavanaugh is somehow condoning sex-
ual assault or somehow not believing
all survivors. As Senator COLLINS stat-
ed yesterday, nothing could be further
from the truth. A bipartisan majority
of Senators, men and women, are likely
to vote for Judge Kavanaugh in a few
hours. To mark all of them as somehow
not caring about the broader issue of
sexual assault in America is not only
untrue and an affront to them but un-
dermines the larger cause of working
together to combat this issue.
I do not believe this is a binary
choice. This is not and should not be a
Republican-versus-Democratic issue.
This is actually an American epidemic,
and, frankly, it should be viewed more
as an American male issue. The men
are the ones who are committing the
vast majority of the abuse, and we need
to work together in this body and
across the country to be united to stop
it.
I will be voting to confirm Judge
Kavanaugh as the next Associate Jus-
tice on the Supreme Court, but on this
broader topic that I have been dis-
cussing this afternoon, our country has
a lot of healing and a lot of work to do.
I am certainly ready to do my part in
that regard with all of my Senate col-
leagues, Republican and Democratic.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. KEN-
NEDY). The Senator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, ar-
ticle II, section 2 of the Constitution
gives this body, the Senate, the respon-
sibility to advise and consent on judi-
cial appointments. It is an important
check on executive power. We are in-
vested with this special responsibility
to ensure that individuals nominated
by the President to be Supreme Court
Justices will be people who will make
decisions fairly and impartially, with-
out favor and without bias. That is why
Lady Justice wears a blindfold and
holds a balance scale on which to weigh
the merits of arguments and claims
that come before her. The integrity of
the Supreme Court requires that every
person who comes before that Court
has confidence that each Justice will
fairly weigh the evidence and the argu-
ments. Judge Kavanaugh does not meet
that standard.
I had that concern at the very begin-
ning of this process, and I fear it more
than ever today at the end of the proc-
ess. Any remaining hope that Judge
Kavanaugh could be trusted to be an
impartial Justice or could be perceived
to be an impartial Justice was shat-
tered by his opening statement at his
last hearing. In that statement, which
he emphasized he wrote in his own
words, Judge Kavanaugh launched into
an ultra-partisan diatribe and into wild
conspiracy theories. He suggested that
Dr. Ford’s compelling testimony about
her sexual assault was somehow manu-
factured by Democrats as payback for
his participation in the Starr inves-
tigation, as if Dr. Ford were an actor in
a bitter partisan battle rather than a
brave citizen who had come forward to
tell her story.
While Judge Kavanaugh attempted
the other day to walk back his words
in his Wall Street Journal op-ed, the
damage he had done was irreversible. If
he is confirmed, hundreds of people
who go before the Supreme Court and
the millions of Americans whose lives
will be affected by his decisions will be-
lieve that Judge Kavanaugh has al-
ready put his hands on the scales of
Justice before they have had their say
in court.
That is why hundreds of law profes-
sors, Jesuits, and personal friends
withdrew their previous support for his
nomination after his statement at that
hearing. That is why the American Bar
Association has called a meeting to re-
consider its endorsement, and that is
why former Justice John Paul Stevens
took the extraordinary step of saying
that Judge Kavanaugh was not fit to
serve on the Supreme Court of the
United States.
It didn’t have to be this way. The
process was flawed from the start, and
it got worse as time went on. It started
when President Trump contracted out
the process of picking a Supreme Court
nominee to rightwing groups like the
Federalist Society and the Heritage
Foundation. During his campaign, can-
didate Trump said he was going to pick
Supreme Court nominees based not on
who would be impartial, based not on
who would be independent but based on
who would do his bidding on certain
issues. He had a number of litmus
tests.
For example, during the campaign,
when talking about the Affordable Care
Act, candidate Trump promised that,
unlike Chief Justice Roberts, his nomi-
nee would ‘‘do the right thing’’ and get
rid of the Affordable Care Act. The
Federalist Society and the Heritage
Foundation didn’t need much coaxing,
but they dutifully compiled lists of
names of people to fit the bill. Judge
Kavanaugh fit the bill, and he fit the
bill according to his own former law
clerks.
One of his former law clerks wrote an
article entitled ‘‘Brett Kavanaugh Said
ObamaCare was Unprecedented and Un-
lawful’’ in order to assure people that
Judge Kavanaugh would be the Justice
Kavanaugh to undo the protections of
the Affordable Care Act. Another one
of Judge Kavanaugh’s own law clerks
said that no other contender on Presi-
dent Trump’s list is on record so vigor-
ously criticizing the Affordable Care
Act. These are Judge Kavanaugh’s law
clerks.
We all know that the case of Texas v.
United States, which threatens to take
away protections for millions of people
with preexisting conditions, is cur-
rently making its way through our
Federal courts as we gather here today.
It was filed by a group of 20 Republican
attorneys general. The Trump adminis-
tration decided not to defend the cur-
rent law and decided not to defend the
Affordable Care Act, and he said to
these Republican attorneys general to
have at it—to get rid of the Affordable
Care Act.
We know that the Texas case is very
likely to end up in the Supreme Court
of the United States. In Judge
Kavanaugh, President Trump has his
man, according to Judge Kavanaugh’s
own law clerks, to rule against the Af-
fordable Care Act—in doing so, strip-
ping millions of Americans from their
protections for preexisting health con-
ditions.
On the issue of a woman’s right to re-
productive freedom and choice, Can-
didate Trump promised he would ap-
point a Justice to take those rights
away. Specifically, he said overturning
Roe ‘‘will happen automatically, in my
opinion, because I am appointing pro-
life justices on the court.’’ Again, he
found his man in Judge Kavanaugh,
and we have Judge Kavanaugh’s own
law clerks saying as much.
In a July 3, 2018, National Review ar-
ticle, one of his former clerks wrote:
‘‘No court-of-appeals judge in the na-
tion has a stronger, more consistent
record of enforcing restrictions on
abortion.’’
Now, at the confirmation hearing, we
all heard Judge Kavanaugh say that
Roe v. Wade was an important prece-
dent, and he said to some Senators
that it was settled law. We know from
many Republican judicial nominees
who have testified before the Senate
about settled law that as soon as they
have gotten on the Supreme Court, it
has no longer been settled. In fact,
Judge Kavanaugh, before he was a
judge, said himself in a 2003 memo that
came to light: ‘‘I am not sure that all
legal scholars refer to Roe as the set-
tled law of the land at the Supreme
Court level since the Court can always
overrule its precedent’’—a clear indica-
tion of where Judge Kavanaugh’s rea-
soning lies, especially in light of the
testimony from his own law clerks.
If you look at other parts of his
record, you will find that Judge
Kavanaugh consistently rules in favor
of powerful special interests and
against the public interest. He has
sided with those who want to lift all of
the restrictions on political campaign
expenditures. In one opinion, Judge
Kavanaugh wrote that PACs are con-
stitutionally entitled to raise and
spend unlimited money in support of
candidates for elected office because it
was ‘‘implausible’’ that contributions
to independent groups could corrupt
candidates.
Those million-dollar expenditures on
behalf of candidates have no impact on
the thinking of those candidates once
they are elected. This is according to
Judge Kavanaugh and, of course, ac-
cording to the Citizens United decision.
In fact, Judge Kavanaugh has been
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.059 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6684 October 5, 2018
credited by one campaign finance ex-
pert as ‘‘the man who created the
super-PAC.’’
Judge Kavanaugh has gone further.
He has even suggested that limits on
direct contributions to candidates are
unconstitutional. Back in March of
2002, in an email, he wrote: ‘‘I have
heard very few people say that the lim-
its on contributions to candidates are
unconstitutional, although I, for one,
tend to think those limits have some
constitutional problems.’’
We can see that if it is Justice
Kavanaugh, not only will he double
down on Citizens United, which says
that corporations can spend unlimited
amounts of money, including unlimited
amounts of secret money, but he will
question the constitutionality of put-
ting limits not only on independent ex-
penditures but on direct contributions
to candidates.
We know Judge Kavanaugh was also
the pick for those who want corporate
power to trump workers’ rights, con-
sumers’ rights, and environmental pro-
tections. The day that Judge
Kavanaugh was nominated for the Su-
preme Court, the White House cir-
culated a letter to corporate leaders
that touted the fact that he would pro-
tect their interests. The White House
proudly noted that he had overruled
Federal regulators 75 times on cases in-
volving clean air, consumer protec-
tions, net neutrality, and other issues.
When it comes to workers’ rights,
Judge Kavanaugh has routinely sided
with corporations that want to prevent
workers from unionizing, even at Presi-
dent Trump’s own hotel in Atlantic
City, which at the time had admitted
its refusal to bargain with workers in a
2012 case.
When the card dealers across several
hotels voted to unionize, Judge
Kavanaugh and a panel of judges in-
validated the will of the workers, over-
turned an administrative law judge’s
ruling that the union be certified, and
allowed the Trump hotel to continue
violating workers’ rights.
On environmental issues, Judge
Kavanaugh’s record shows that time
and again, he favors polluters over
clean water and clean air. With his
confirmation, it will be much harder
for Americans to seek redress in the
courts, and it will be easier for pol-
luters to continue to pollute the envi-
ronment. As a circuit court judge, he
has written 10 dissenting opinions in
environmental cases, and in each one,
he has argued against the side that
sought to protect the public health and
the environment.
Judge Kavanaugh’s sweeping view of
executive power should cause alarm
among every Member of this Senate,
Republican and Democrat alike. We
have all heard the testimony, and we
have seen the writings. It appears to be
no surprise that President Trump, who
is watching that Mueller investigation
get closer and closer to his doorstep,
would want a judge who will give ex-
cessive deference to the executive
branch—somebody who may be on the
Supreme Court when that Court has to
decide whether or not President Trump
can be subpoenaed in that case or oth-
erwise or be brought to justice in that
case, if that is what the conclusions de-
mand.
It is clear on all of these issues that
President Trump and the Republicans
had their man in Judge Kavanaugh.
They have someone they believe will
overturn the Affordable Care Act, once
again giving insurance companies a
green light to discriminate against
people with preexisting conditions.
They think they have someone who
will overturn Roe v. Wade or dramati-
cally limit a woman’s right to repro-
ductive freedom and choice; someone
who will gut environmental regula-
tions, undermine workers’ rights, and
consumer protections; someone who
will give corporations the ability to
continue to spend unlimited amounts
of money in elections and who might
even argue that the contribution limits
to candidates are unconstitutional and
can be limited; and, finally, someone
the President believes will get him off
the hook if the Mueller investigation
gets too close to him.
So here we had Republicans in this
Senate and a President on the verge of
getting someone they thought could do
all of those things, and then something
unexpected happened: The country
learned about what happened to Dr.
Ford.
Our Republican colleagues seem to
have forgotten that Dr. Ford did not
want to come publicly to report her
sexual assault. It was only when she
found out that Judge Kavanaugh was
on the second short list that was re-
leased that she became concerned.
Even then, she didn’t want to come for-
ward publicly. But she thought it was
her civic duty to let people know what
had happened to her, so she reached
out to her Representative in Congress
on a confidential basis.
The story did become public, and
when it did, she felt dutybound to tes-
tify before the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee and tell Senators what hap-
pened to her on that awful day. We all
know she had nothing to gain. She has
been subjected to all sorts of awful
death threats and other kinds of verbal
abuse. She had nothing to gain and ev-
erything to lose.
Our Republican Senators who lis-
tened to her testimony, for the most
part, said that her testimony was both
powerful and credible; we know she an-
swered questions directly. By contrast,
Judge Kavanaugh’s testimony was par-
tisan, evasive, and, on many points,
even under oath, untruthful.
When the female prosecutor Repub-
licans hired to ask questions for them
could not discredit Dr. Ford’s testi-
mony, we saw many of our Republican
colleagues launch into full partisan at-
tack mode; no longer did the facts mat-
ter. They picked up on Judge
Kavanaugh’s opening statement about
partisanship rather than seeking to get
to the truth about what happened to
Dr. Ford and others who have alleged
sexual assault.
What mattered was ramming through
their nominee. The majority leader,
Senator MCCONNELL, said they would
‘‘plow right through’’ and, by God,
nothing was going to stop them. They
even scheduled the vote on Judge
Kavanaugh before they had heard the
testimony about sexual abuse and sex-
ual assault from Dr. Ford and Judge
Kavanaugh.
It was only when Senator FLAKE rec-
ognized what a sham the process was
that he at least forced the Republican
leadership to do what they did not
want to do and agree to a short FBI in-
vestigation into the allegations of Dr.
Ford and Deborah Ramirez, but the
goal never changed. The goal of ram-
ming through the nomination never
changed.
That is why Senate Republicans and
the White House dramatically limited
the scope of the FBI investigation.
They tied the hands of the FBI. They
told the FBI whom they could inter-
view. The investigation that was al-
ready going to be short at about a
week was cut even shorter and was fin-
ished up in a matter of days.
What is the result? The result is com-
pletely predictable. The result is we
have lots of key witnesses who were
not interviewed who say they have cor-
roborating evidence to support the al-
legations of Dr. Ford and Deborah Ra-
mirez. The country will continue to
hear from these witnesses after today’s
vote.
Because the investigation was or-
chestrated by the White House and the
Senate Republican leadership, the FBI
was not allowed to do its full job. It
would have been better for all parties
involved—and I mean all parties, in-
cluding Judge Kavanaugh—to have had
a thorough investigation where, at the
end of the day, the public could have
confidence that all of the available evi-
dence could have been tracked down
and reviewed. That would have been
best for the integrity of the Court and
the integrity of the Senate.
We all know there is no requirement
that we rush this confirmation. We all
know that. After all, it was the Repub-
lican leader who kept a seat open on
the Supreme Court for months and
months and months after President
Obama had nominated Judge Merrick
Garland. So this notion that there is
some kind of artificial deadline is sim-
ply untrue. This is all being done, as
the majority leader said, to ‘‘plow
right through.’’
Taking time to do the investigation
right would have put the entire enter-
prise at risk—the entire plan to put on
the Supreme Court the person Presi-
dent Trump and Republicans believe
will deliver the legal outcomes they
want. Even if all of the testimony
shows he can no longer be impartial, in
this case, his record and testimony in-
dicate that he will deliver the legal
outcomes they want.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.061 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6685
October 5, 2018
Dr. Ford’s courage in coming forward
and telling what happened to her has
empowered many of my Maryland con-
stituents and many others around the
country to come forward with their
own stories of abuse.
I have received written statements
from over 50 Marylanders—over 50
Marylanders—telling me about the sex-
ual abuse they had encountered. Some
of them told me they have shared with
me what they have not shared with
their own family members. They felt it
was important that I know why they
did not report their abuse at the time,
why they did not tell their parents, and
why their memories were not perfect
decades later.
They told me what they do remem-
ber. They told me they remember the
clothing they wore the day they were
assaulted. They told me they remem-
ber the scent, the cologne, and the feel-
ing of unwanted hands. Those memo-
ries haunt them.
These stories are reminders of how
our society has let down survivors of
sexual assault for decades. The way
that these survivors have been treated
has been shameful. I am humbled by
the trust they have shown in sharing
these experiences with me, and I will
let the stories of a few of them speak
for themselves here on the floor of the
Senate.
Here is what one woman wrote:
Once [when] I was 16, I was at a party.
There was alcohol. He was popular, I wasn’t.
He was big and strong, I have never been. He
threatened me afterwards. He needn’t have
bothered. He told me no one would believe
me. He told me I wanted it. I showed a friend
the bruises. He said everyone would say I was
a slut. I told another friend I was frightened.
She said I should just avoid him in school. I
told an adult I trusted at my job. She told
me about how when she reported when she
was young, how the police treated her, how
her parents reacted. How she regretted say-
ing anything. I never told my parents. I went
to a free clinic and the ‘‘therapist’’ asked
how could I know it was rape if I had been
drinking.
Those are the powerful words from
one Marylander.
Another wrote:
I remember the assault vividly. I was on
my way home from church. I don’t remember
the sermon before. Details are fuzzy. But I
remember the assault. I remember looking
at a nearby home where I knew elderly peo-
ple lived. I could see that their TV was on
and I wondered, ‘‘Would they even hear me
scream?’’ I didn’t tell people. I didn’t think
people would believe me.
Another constituent wrote me this
quickly, without editing. She told me
she cried when she read it to her hus-
band. Here is what she wrote:
Having experience in working with victims
in a prosecutorial manner, or as a judge, or
even defending the accused does not make
you an expert. The expert is the victim. I am
that victim. I am that expert. And as such I
can tell you absolutely, without hesitation,
that what haunts you most, what affects how
you relate in the future with your loving
spouse, what affects how you feel about
yourself, and what affects even your sense of
smell, is the memory of the person who
abused you. Not the address where it took
place, not the time on the clock, not the day
of the week—but the smell of the person as-
saulting you, the feel of their hands, the con-
fusion in your head because you don’t know
what is happening because it’s all happening
so fast, and yes—their name. You never for-
get their name.
She went on to say:
Then comes the shame. What did I do to
cause this? What will people think of me now
because I’ve been touched, I’ve been tar-
nished, I’m not pure. Will I be believed? At
this point my life has already been altered
beyond repair, but it’s an internal alter. If I
talk, it alters my external world as well.
Maybe it’s better to just not talk because
then at least I can pretend things are as they
have always been. I can just pretend that I’m
exactly the same person—but I’m not.
Another wrote that she understood
that a man could move on from as-
saulting a woman particularly if they
were drunk at the time. She said:
The man who assaulted me later acted as if
he was catching up with an old friend and
had no memory of the event. I have several
friends who have experienced the same thing.
Another echoed a similar experience,
writing:
He had been drinking heavily with friends
at a restaurant or bar. I had not. Later that
night, he raped [me]. He was very inebriated
and displayed a complete personality
change. He was violent and angry and did not
even seem to see me. I was paralyzed and
probably saved my own life by not fighting
back as he had essentially become a rabid
animal. The next day I confronted him about
what happened and he had no memory of the
crime he committed.
These are not isolated incidents for
survivors. As I have said, I have gotten
over 50—over 50—personal testimonials
from survivors since Dr. Ford had the
courage to come forward. These are
people who have not shared what hap-
pened to them with some of their clos-
est friends or family members. These
are stains etched in their memories.
Many of them never told a soul. Others
were ignored or dismissed when they
brought up these awful experiences and
were told to stay quiet.
It is an insult to these survivors
when some have called them partisan.
In many cases, they went out of their
way in their messages to me to say
their concerns had nothing to do with
ideology or partisanship—nothing.
Some told me they are Republicans,
and others are Independents. Some of
them grew up in families who had no
care about politics. Others told me
they were Democrats but they would
be more than willing to accept a dif-
ferent, conservative judge—but not
this one.
When Donald Trump went to a cam-
paign rally and mocked Dr. Ford, he
mocked every one of those 50 survivors
who wrote to me. He mocked every sur-
vivor of sexual abuse around the coun-
try. And this Senate’s decision to do as
the majority leader said, ‘‘plow right
through’’ without undertaking a thor-
ough and serious investigation into the
charges from Dr. Ford, Deborah Rami-
rez, that also disrespects these sur-
vivors. That is what they say to me.
Of course, Judge Kavanaugh did the
same thing in his opening statement at
his most recent hearing because his en-
tire opening statement suggested that
Dr. Ford’s coming forward was part of
some political conspiracy. Unfortu-
nately, that is where this conversation
has gone ever since—not an effort to
really get to the truth, to really get all
the facts but just to do what the ma-
jority leader said before she even testi-
fied: ‘‘Plow right through.’’
We know that etched above the Su-
preme Court are the words ‘‘Equal Jus-
tice Under Law.’’ It does not say ‘‘plow
right through.’’
The decision to ‘‘plow right through’’
will undermine and haunt the integrity
of the Supreme Court for decades to
come, and it will also haunt and under-
mine the integrity of this U.S. Senate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I have to
say I am sick of this. I am sick of ev-
eryone who wants to rewrite the his-
tory of what happened in the Senate
with the nomination of Brett
Kavanaugh to the United States. It
isn’t even over yet, and they want peo-
ple to believe that what we have wit-
nessed over the past weeks was what
they call a ‘‘political hit job per-
petrated by Democrats with a grudge.’’
That is the story the nominee him-
self tried to sell in his testimony on
Thursday. He accused Democrats of
lying in wait. He twisted Ranking
Member FEINSTEIN’s respect for Dr.
Christine Blasey Ford’s wish for pri-
vacy. He falsely claimed Democrats
had her accusation ‘‘ready,’’ that Dr.
Ford’s accusation ‘‘was held in secret
for weeks,’’ because the Democrats, as
Judge Kavanaugh put it, ‘‘couldn’t
take me out on the merits.’’
What a paranoid fantasy.
Brett Kavanaugh’s entire perform-
ance was an hour’s long rant. I am
quoting him. He said:
This whole two-week effort has been a cal-
culated and orchestrated political hit, fueled
with apparent pent-up anger about President
Trump and the 2016 election.
Fear that has been unfairly stoked about
my judicial record. Revenge on behalf of the
Clintons, and millions of dollars in money
from outside left-wing opposition groups.
Unbelievable, in my view. He claimed
to have written this screed on his own
without showing it to any of his han-
dlers. I find that hard to believe, given
that he was reported to have spent 10-
hour days at the White House pre-
paring for this hearing.
We heard Dr. Ford’s raw and sincere
account of that night as a drunk teen-
aged Brett Kavanaugh and Mark Judge
attacked her. The nominee called it a
‘‘grotesque and coordinated character
assassination.’’ But this isn’t a con-
spiracy, Judge Kavanaugh. It is real.
Look at what Dr. Ford’s coming for-
ward has triggered. People believe her
for many reasons. Her recall of events
is consistent with the way survivors of
trauma remember things. Her de-
meanor was forthright and open. She
had everything to lose and nothing to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.062 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6686 October 5, 2018
gain by coming forward, and despite
what many are saying, there is quite a
bit of collaboration of her story.
She knew Brett Kavanaugh. She so-
cialized with his circle of friends. She
had told people in her life what hap-
pened to her long before Brett
Kavanaugh was nominated to the Su-
preme Court. His calendar attests to
him having attended at least one gath-
ering consistent with her recollection.
But another reason so many people
believe Dr. Ford is that her account is
so familiar. It has echoes in so many of
our own stories, our own experiences.
So many women have survived some
version of what happened to her, along
a spectrum of experiences that range
from creepy looks or catcalls to rape
and other violent attacks. So many
women have kept their stories to them-
selves for fear of not being believed, for
fear of retaliation or humiliation, or
shunning.
In a column written by Monica Hesse
in the Washington Post, entitled ‘‘Dear
dads: Your daughters told me about
their assaults. This is why they never
told you,’’ Ms. Hesse writes about all
the reasons why survivors don’t even
tell people closest to them about what
happened to them.
She writes:
For all the stereotypes that linger about
women being too fragile or emotional, these
past weeks have revealed what many women
already knew: A lot of effort goes into pro-
tecting men we love from bad things that
happen to us.’’
She writes to fathers who are only
now finding out about the daily indig-
nities women endure and explains why
they were never told and why their
loved ones were now writing to Hesse
herself.
I am going to quote extensively from
this article:
To the father of the young woman who was
assaulted by the student athlete she was
hired to tutor: She never told you because
she didn’t want to break your heart. But she
told me, in a long email, because the mem-
ory of it was breaking her own heart and
she’d spent five years replaying it.
To the father of the junior high student
who was pinned down and undressed at a
gathering 30 years ago: She didn’t tell you
because she didn’t want to see you cry. But
she told me that she still remembers every
detail.
To the father of the teenager who was
raped at a party: You don’t know about this,
because she was certain that if you knew,
you would kill her attacker and go to prison,
and it would be her fault.
To the father of the son who was assaulted
by an older man: I wish I could tell you more
about what happened to him, but he wouldn’t
tell me, and he definitely won’t tell you, be-
cause manliness is important to you, he
says.
To all the fathers of all the silent victims:
Your children are quietly carrying these sto-
ries, not because they can’t handle the emo-
tions but because they are worried that you
can’t.
They are worried that your emotions will
have too many consequences. Or they fear
you won’t think of them the same way. Or
that you’ll be distraught because you didn’t
protect them.
These words and stories are powerful,
and Ms. Hesse is right. So many sur-
vivors want to protect their loved ones,
but Ms. Hesse is also right that they
shouldn’t keep their stories in. She
urges them, saying:
So, to the rest of you: If you could tell
your father in a way that feels safe, and in a
way that would bring you comfort, tell your
father. Tell your brothers. Let them be un-
comfortable; let them share some of your
pain. Don’t let them be ignorant.
And once women are able to share
their experiences, what should we do
with them? I agree with the author Re-
becca Traister, who captured so much
of what I have been thinking lately in
a piece called ‘‘Fury Is a Political
Weapon, and Women Need to Wield It.’’
This is in the New York Times. I want
to read some of it to you.
Ms. Tracer wrote:
Outside the room where Christine Blasey
Ford forward was testifying on Thursday
morning, women were incandescent with
rage and sorrow and horror.
They were getting angry in a new way, a
public way, an unapologetic way—a way that
is typically reserved for men, and that would
again serve men well, when afternoon came.
Brett Kavanaugh bellowed; he snarled; he
pouted and wept furiously at the injustice of
having his ascendance to power interrupted
by accusations of sexual assault.
He challenged his questioners, turned their
queries back on them.
What happened inside the room was an ex-
ceptionally clear distillation of who has his-
torically been allowed to be angry on their
own behalf, and who has not.
And outside the room was a hint of how it
might be changing.
Most of the time, female anger is discour-
aged, repressed, ignored, swallowed. Or
transformed into something more palatable
and less recognizable as fury—something
like tears. When women are truly lived, they
often weep.
Maybe we cry when we’re furious in part
because we feel a kind of grief at all the
things we want to say or yell that we know
we can’t.
Maybe we’re just sad about the very same
things that we’re angry about. I wept as soon
as Dr. Blasey began to speak.
On social media, I saw hundreds of mes-
sages from women who reported the same ex-
perience, of finding themselves awash in
tears, simply in response to this woman’s
voice, raised in polite dissent.
The power of the moment, the anxiety that
it would be futile, the grief that we would
even have to put her—and ourselves—
through this spectacle, was intense.
Tears are permitted as an outlet for wrath
in part because they are fundamentally mis-
understood.
One of my sharpest memories from an
early job in a male-dominated office, where I
once found myself weeping with inexpress-
ible rage, was my being grabbed by the scruff
of my neck by an older woman—a chilly
manager of whom I’d always been slightly
terrified—who dragged me into a stairwell.
‘‘Never let them see you crying,’’ she told
me. ‘‘They don’t know you’re furious. They
think you’re sad and will be pleased because
they got to you.’’
This political moment has provoked a pe-
riod in which more and more women have
been in no mood to dress their fury up as
anything other than raw and burning rage.
Many women are yelling, shouting, using
Sharpies to etch sharply worded slogans onto
protest signs, making furious phone calls to
representatives.
Many of the women shouting now are
women who have not previously yelled pub-
licly before, many of them, white middle-
class women newly awakened to political
fury and protest.
Part of the process of becoming mad must
be recognizing that they are not the first to
be furious, and that there is much to learn
from the stories and histories of the lived
women—many of them not white or middle
class—who have never had reason not to be
mad.
If you are angry today, or if you have been
angry for awhile, and you’re wondering
whether you’re allowed to be as angry as you
feel, let me say: Yes. Yes, you are allowed.
You are, in fact, compelled.
If you’ve been feeling a new rage at the
flaws of this country, and if your anger is
making you want to change your life in
order to change the world, then I have some-
thing incredibly important to say: Don’t for-
get how this feels.
That is Rebecca Traister’s article.
Traister ends her article by endors-
ing anger and telling women not to let
go of it. She says:
What you’re angry about now—injustice—
will still exist, even if you yourself are not
experiencing it, or are tempted to stop
thinking about how you experience it, and
how you contribute to it.
Others are still experiencing it, still mad;
some of them are mad at you. Don’t forget
them; don’t write off their anger. Stay mad
for them, alongside them, let them lead you
in anger.
That is what I am left with, Mr.
President. Anger. Fury. Disgust. At a
process that could not see the truth of
what Dr. Ford tried to tell us.
The rewriters of truth are already at
it. In column after column, on cable
news shows across the country, and
even here on the Senate floor, they are
casting Judge Kavanaugh as the vic-
tim.
I was asked a few days ago whether
the four Democratic women on the Ju-
diciary Committee had a special re-
sponsibility to address the question of
sexual assault. I reject the premise of
that question. It is not just up to the
women in this country to stand up.
Men have to join us. They have to hold
themselves and other men accountable.
They have to push back against the
fear that those with power feel when
they are challenged. We saw some of
the ways that this kind of fear operates
just this week among some of my Sen-
ate colleagues.
When approached by survivors of sex-
ual assault who waited to talk to them
about the Kavanaugh nomination, they
said things like ‘‘Grow up,’’ insinu-
ating that the women sharing their
painful, traumatic accounts were there
to enjoy themselves. Enjoy them-
selves?
We saw the President of the United
States sink to a level I didn’t think
possible. The mocker-in-chief mocked
Dr. Ford, a survivor of sexual assault.
He mocked her for not remembering
some peripheral things about the at-
tack. But the thing she said she was 100
percent sure of was that it was Brett
Kavanaugh who attacked her.
In case some of my colleagues don’t
get it, sexual assault survivors often
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.064 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6687
October 5, 2018
don’t remember how many steps, how
many rooms, the kinds of things the
President mocked Dr. Ford about. But
they remember the attack itself with
100 percent accuracy. They remember
how it felt, the fear, the laughter of the
attackers.
The kinds of insults that have been
hurled at Dr. Ford and others in her
situation are cruel and unnecessary. I
am left with anger and determination,
just like millions of people across the
country.
I will take Rebecca Traister’s advice
and commend it to the women of Amer-
ica and the men who understand their
stories. I will stay mad and let that
anger propel us to change. Going for-
ward, I will continue to listen to
women who have shared their stories. I
will tell them that I hear them, I see
them, and I want all of us to be the
change that needs to happen in our
country.
Before I yield the floor, I want to
read a statement from Debbie Ramirez
dated October 6, 2018. She says:
Thirty-five years ago, the other students
in the room chose to laugh and look the
other way as sexual violence was perpetrated
on me by Brett Kavanaugh. As I watch many
of the Senators speak and vote on the floor
of the Senate I feel like I’m right back at
Yale where half the room is laughing and
looking the other way. Only this time, in-
stead of drunk college kids, it is U.S. Sen-
ators who are deliberately ignoring his be-
havior. This is how victims are isolated and
silenced.
But I do have corroborating witnesses
speaking for me, although they were not al-
lowed to speak to the FBI, and I feel ex-
tremely grateful for them and for the over-
whelming amount of support that I have re-
ceived and continue to receive during this
extremely difficult and painful time. There
may be people with power who are looking
the other way, but there are millions more
who are standing together, speaking up
about personal experiences of sexual violence
and taking action to support survivors. This
is truly a collective moment of survivors and
allies standing together.
Thank you for hearing me, seeing me and
believing me. I am grateful for each and
every one of you. We will not be silenced.
We stand in truth and light, Debbie Rami-
rez.
I yield the floor.
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise today
in support of the nomination of Brett
M. Kavanaugh to be our next Associate
Justice on the Supreme Court of the
United States.
Confirming Supreme Court Justices
is one of the most important and sa-
cred roles of the Senate. Supreme
Court candidates represent individuals
who have reached the highest level of
their profession and are often the
brightest legal minds of their genera-
tion. Beyond their stellar resumes,
they must have a proven track record
of approaching each case with care and
a commitment to upholding our rule of
law and the Constitution. Judge
Kavanaugh easily exceeds these stand-
ards and is highly qualified for con-
firmation to our nation’s highest
court.
I met with Judge Kavanaugh in July
and got the chance to talk with him
about his judicial philosophy and
record. During our conversation, I was
struck by his professionalism, commit-
ment to the Constitution, and vast
knowledge of our legal system. We dis-
cussed the important issues facing Wy-
oming, and I believe he understands my
State’s unique challenges. As a rural,
western State, we are constantly bat-
tling Federal Government overreach
from Washington, DC. Judge
Kavanaugh has a long history of rein-
ing in executive agencies that stretch
beyond their statutory authorities,
which is a welcome relief for my State.
Wyoming is a State full of citizens who
expect our courts to uphold the Con-
stitution as the framers originally in-
tended it.
I voted to confirm Judge Kavanaugh
as a judge to the DC Circuit Court of
Appeals over a decade ago. Since that
time, Judge Kavanaugh has become
widely regarded by his peers as one of
the most respected circuit judges in
the Nation. He is a prolific writer and
has authored more than 300 opinions,
demonstrating his firm commitment to
the rule of law. Having reviewed his
record, and based on his experience and
writings, I believe Judge Kavanaugh
will fairly and impartially interpret
the law.
Over a decade ago, when the Senate
was considering the nominations of
Justice Alito and Chief Justice Rob-
erts, I gave a floor speech where I stat-
ed that ‘‘[W]e have shifted into an era
of judges who legislate. We must return
to the elementary doctrines that [rec-
ognize] the important and distinct
roles of each branch.’’ That sentiment
is more true now than ever. Elected
representatives in Congress are held
accountable to the people and must
demonstrate their fidelity to their con-
stituents’ concerns to remain in office.
There is no such check on our judici-
ary. Congress’s job is to write the law,
and the courts are tasked with inter-
preting the law and determining its ad-
herence to the Constitution, not writ-
ing it themselves. I believe Judge
Kavanaugh understands this distinc-
tion thoroughly and has a proven track
record of refraining from rewriting
laws from the bench. His confirmation
to the Supreme Court will set a new
standard for our judicial system that
encourages this type of philosophy, one
that shies away from activism and fo-
cuses on the true role of the courts to
interpret the law.
I also appreciate Judge Kavanaugh’s
commitment to service. Since the be-
ginning of his career, he has spent sev-
eral decades in various roles in the
public sector, serving our Nation. From
the Bush administration and now to
the courts, he has dedicated his life to
public service and served our Nation
honorably. He is also a family man who
volunteers his extra time at his church
or helping deliver meals to other peo-
ple. Of all of the shining spots on Judge
Kavanaugh’s resume, this may be the
most impressive.
Serious accusations were recently
made against Judge Kavanaugh. It is a
Senator’s job when giving advice and
consent on nominations to give such
accusations, and the people making
them, careful consideration. I do not
condone sexual assault in any case, and
allegations must be taken seriously.
All parties deserve fair treatment. I be-
lieve they got it, and the committee
rendered its decision.
The situation surrounding these ac-
cusations included noise and political
pandemonium the likes of which we
have thankfully not had too many oc-
casions to witness in the history of our
country. That is why I was appre-
ciative of how Judiciary Committee
Chairman CHUCK GRASSLEY conducted
committee consideration of this nomi-
nation. He cut through the conjecture,
speculation, frenzy, and focused the
committee on fair consideration for ac-
cusers and accused.
I made my decision to vote for Judge
Kavanaugh based on my meeting with
him, his long and meritorious record of
public service and as a judge, which in-
volved multiple FBI background
checks, including the most recent sup-
plemental review, and the Judiciary
Committee’s work on the nomination.
That work included a day of questions
about the accusations made against
Judge Kavanaugh. At the conclusion of
this process, no new facts were re-
vealed and no corroboration of the ac-
cusations was presented.
Like Justice Gorsuch before him, I
believe Judge Kavanaugh would issue
decisions adhering to a strict interpre-
tation of the Constitution, free from
outside pressure. I applaud President
Trump for taking his responsibility to
nominate qualified Justices so seri-
ously.
Thank you.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, yester-
day, we heard our colleague from
Maine express the hope that his ‘‘nomi-
nation is where the process has finally
hit rock bottom.’’ On this, I agree. I
hope we never again reach a place
where women are as disrespected, ig-
nored, and disregarded, as they have
been throughout this confirmation
process.
My colleague also observed that
‘‘[w]e live in a time of such great dis-
unity’’ that ‘‘people bear[ ] extreme ill
will toward those who disagree with
them.’’ While that may be true for
some, I think many of us who have
strongly spoken out about our con-
cerns about Judge Kavanaugh’s nomi-
nations do not bear any ill will against
those who disagree with us. In fact,
being able to strongly disagree with
others and voice our opinions without
being told to ‘‘grow up’’ or called a
‘‘loud mouth’’ reflects a respect for the
American values of democracy and re-
specting women. It is in that spirit, I
would like to clarify several misunder-
standings raised by my colleague.
As my colleague from Maine noted,
she cares about protecting women’s re-
productive rights. Given this concern, I
feel compelled to clarify her descrip-
tion of Judge Kavanaugh’s record on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.066 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6688 October 5, 2018
reproductive rights. She referenced,
without naming, Judge Kavanaugh’s
dissenting opinion in favor of a reli-
gious organization, Priests for Life. In
that case, he argued that religious em-
ployers could deny their women em-
ployees access to healthcare coverage
of contraception because filling out a
2-page form was too burdensome for
them.
Despite this conclusion, my colleague
described Judge Kavanaugh’s decision
as ‘‘seeking to ensure the availability
of contraceptive services for women
while minimizing the involvement of
employers with religious objections.’’
It is hard to see how blocking access to
contraceptives for women by finding a
2-page form too burdensome is truly
seeking to ensure access to contracep-
tives.
She claimed that his critics ‘‘fre-
quently overlook’’ the fact that he
wrote that ‘‘Supreme Court precedent
‘strongly suggested’ that there was a
‘compelling interest’ in facilitating ac-
cess to birth control.’’ But that ignores
the fact that regardless of this rhet-
oric, Judge Kavanaugh has consist-
ently demonstrated hostility to wom-
en’s reproductive rights, including in
the very case that she referenced,
Priests for Life v. Department of
Health and Human Services. Moreover,
if he is confirmed to the Supreme
Court, Judge Kavanaugh can make
clear to the entire country that facili-
tating access to contraceptives is not a
compelling interest.
I am also very concerned that my
colleague failed to mention the key
case addressing Judge Kavanaugh’s
views on women’s reproductive rights,
Garza v. Hargan. In that case, a 17-
year-old undocumented immigrant
sought release from HHS custody to
obtain an abortion. In his dissent,
Judge Kavanaugh mischaracterized the
case as one of ‘‘parental consent’’ case
to reach his desired outcome, denying
this young women access to her con-
stitutional right to an abortion. Paren-
tal consent was not at issue at all in
that case. The young woman had al-
ready received a proper judicial bypass
from a Texas judge. That case is trou-
bling not only because it shows Judge
Kavanaugh’s complete disregard for a
woman’s right to make her own deci-
sions about the most intimate aspects
of her life, but also because it reveals
his willingness to misrepresent the law
and facts to reach his partisan, desired
outcome.
Although some of my colleagues have
tried to hang their hat on Judge
Kavanaugh’s generic statements about
his respect for precedent, even his own
colleagues have criticized him for ig-
noring precedent, when expedient. In
one case, United States v. Anthem, his
colleagues in the majority sharply
criticized his dissent, stating that their
‘‘dissenting colleague applies the law
as he wishes it were, not as it currently
is.’’
My colleague from Maine also noted
Judge Kavanaugh’s ‘‘rave reviews . . .
as a judge, including for his judicial
temperament.’’ She pointed to the fact
that the American Bar Association’s
Standing Committee on the Federal
Judiciary, ABA, ‘‘concluded that ‘his
integrity, judicial temperament, and
professional confidence met the high-
est standard.’ ’’ But I would be remiss if
I didn’t further note that the ABA in-
formed the Judiciary Committee yes-
terday morning that it was reopening
its evaluation of Judge Kavanaugh be-
cause of ‘‘[n]ew information of a mate-
rial nature regarding temperament
during the September 27th hearing be-
fore the Senate Judiciary Committee.’’
This new information includes Judge
Kavanaugh’s angry, partisan screed on
September 27, when he accused Sen-
ators of ‘‘orchestrat[ing] a political
hit’’ as ‘‘revenge on behalf of the Clin-
tons’’ and ominously said, ‘‘what goes
around comes around.’’
These statements, which were not
mentioned by my colleague, directly
contradict Judge Kavanaugh’s state-
ments of nonpartisanship that my col-
league quoted in her remarks. But the
most important clarification that I feel
compelled to make is my colleague’s
discussion of Dr. Christine Blasey
Ford’s testimony. My colleague stated
that she ‘‘found [Dr. Ford’s] testimony
to be sincere, painful, and compelling.’’
She also said that she ‘‘believe[s] [Dr.
Ford] is a survivor of a sexual assault
and that this trauma has upended her
life.’’
But these statements of support were
followed in the caveat, ‘‘Nevertheless.’’
‘‘Nevertheless,’’ it was said, ‘‘the four
witnesses [Dr. Ford] named could not
corroborate any of the events of the
evening gathering where she said the
assault occurred.’’ My colleague raised
questions about the fact that no one
came forward from this small gath-
ering in the summer of 1982 to say that
they were at the party or that they
gave Dr. Ford a ride home that night.
Point by point, these statements
sought to poke holes in Dr. Ford’s tes-
timony based on little details.
In the midst of the questions raised
about these little details in Dr. Ford’s
testimony, the bottom line message
was clear: Dr. Ford was not to be be-
lieved. She was mixed up, mistaken. By
contrast, Judge Kavanaugh was to be
believed because he ‘‘forcefully denied
the allegations under penalty of per-
jury.’’ But there was no mention of the
fact that Dr. Ford also testified until
penalty of perjury and said she was
‘‘100 percent’’ certain it was Brett
Kavanaugh who sexually assaulted her
in the summer of 1982.
In contrast to the claim that there
was a ‘‘lack of corroborating evi-
dence,’’ there was significant corrobo-
rating evidence, as my colleagues have
already entered into the RECORD. To
highlight just a few, Dr. Ford’s account
was corroborated by Dr. Ford’s thera-
pist, results of a polygraph examina-
tion, and other witnesses who were told
about Dr. Ford’s account of her sexual
assault, even before Judge Kavanaugh
was nominated to the Supreme Court.
In contrast to my colleague’s descrip-
tion of this process as a dysfunctional
‘‘frenzy’’ of special interest groups
spreading ‘‘outright falsehoods,’’ I be-
lieve what we have heard over the past
few weeks is democracy in action.
Across America, women and men have
been sharing their painful experiences
of sexual assault and why it matters
that someone who commits sexual as-
sault should not be rewarded with a
seat on the highest court in the land.
They are saying character, credibility,
candor, and temperament matter.
Those are the American values we will
be rejecting today, if Brett Kavanaugh
is confirmed to the Supreme Court.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I thank
the distinguished Senator from Hawaii
for her comments. She has had a strong
voice of reason and conscience
throughout this whole debate.
This is not a normal confirmation
vote. I have now served in the Senate
for 19 Supreme Court nominations,
more than any other Senator. I have
never seen so much at stake with a sin-
gle seat. I have never seen this much at
stake precisely because this is about so
much more than one seat. Indeed, the
integrity of two of the three coequal
branches of our Republic is at stake.
This vote will decide whether the U.S.
Senate—which, at its best, can serve as
the conscience of the Nation—causes
the Supreme Court to be indelibly
tainted in the eyes of millions of Amer-
icans, perhaps more than half of the
country.
To be clear, my opposition to Judge
Kavanaugh is not because he was nomi-
nated by a Republican President. In my
44 years in the Senate, I have voted for
more Republican-appointed judges
than almost every single Republican
Senator serving today. That includes,
of course, voting to confirm Chief Jus-
tice John Roberts. But Judge
Kavanaugh is not a typical conserv-
ative nominee. My opposition is driven
by my firm belief that his confirmation
will bring great harm to the court, to
this body, and to millions of hard-
working Americans.
Judge Kavanaugh has been relent-
lessly dishonest under oath. I am not
just referring to the fact that he was
not telling the truth about his high
school drinking or the obvious misog-
yny in his yearbook or whether he is
‘‘Bart O’Kavanaugh,’’ who passed out
from drunkenness. All of that, of
course, does speak to his credibility, as
he concocted far-fetched story after
far-fetched story, all to avoid con-
ceding facts that would corroborate the
Brett Kavanaugh as described by Dr.
Ford and Ms. Ramirez.
But it is much more than that—
much, much more than that. Every sin-
gle time Judge Kavanaugh has testified
before the Senate—in 2004, in 2006, and
twice in 2018—he has misled and dis-
sembled. On issues big and small, any-
time he has been faced with questions
that are incriminating, or would place
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06OC6.030 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6689
October 5, 2018
him in the middle of controversy, he
has shown that he cannot be trusted to
tell the truth. He misled the Senate.
Following questions by both Repub-
licans and Democrats, he misled the
Senate about his role in a hacking
scandal and thefts from the U.S. Sen-
ate. He misled the Senate about his
role in confirming several controver-
sial judicial nominees and in shaping
the legal justifications for some of the
Bush administration’s most extreme
and eventually discredited policies. I
have never seen a nominee so casually
willing to evade and deny the truth in
service of his own raw ambition. For
decades, that ambition has let him,
step after step, evade the truth if it is
in any way going to stop his ambitions.
The truth is, we are just beginning to
learn about Judge Kavanaugh’s dishon-
esty under oath. His false testimony
during his 2004 and 2006 confirmation
hearings only came to light as the Ju-
diciary Committee obtained some of
his White House emails—some because
Senate Republicans blocked access to
90 percent—90 percent—of his White
House records. Compare that to when
Justice Kagan was here, we made sure
that Republicans and Democrats had 99
percent of her records, and they were
briefed on the remaining 1 percent.
Here, 90 percent was blocked. So every-
thing we have learned about his prior
dishonesty comes from just 10 percent
of his record. Many more of these
records are eventually going to become
public after today. In fact, I joined a
lawsuit, led by Senator BLUMENTHAL,
to force the National Archives to re-
lease these records. So if 10 percent of
his records show dishonesty, what are
the chances that the other 90 percent
do not contain additional evidence of
Judge Kavanaugh’s dishonesty under
oath? I would say the chance is about
zero.
It is not just Judge Kavanaugh’s ve-
racity that is disqualifying; it is also
his temperament and his partisan zeal.
When Brett Kavanaugh was nominated
to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals in
2004, he was known only as a hyper-par-
tisan political operative. Because he
was seen as so hyperpolitical, it took 2
years to get him confirmed. Since
Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination to the
Supreme Court, I had wondered wheth-
er his earlier partisan zeal that held
him up for 2 years has remained.
Well, it was confirmed last week that
it does remain. I have never seen a
nominee, either Republican or Demo-
crat, so consumed by partisan rancor.
In testimony that veered into a tirade,
he angrily attacked Senators and dis-
missed Dr. Ford’s testimony as part of
a smear campaign to ruin his name and
sink his nomination. His conspiratorial
ramblings—attributing the allegations
to ‘‘revenge on behalf of the Clintons,’’
wherever that came from—were an in-
sult to Dr. Ford and to survivors of sex-
ual violence everywhere. It is not how
a patron of the President of the United
States continues to deride victims of
sexual violence.
Former Justice John Paul Stevens, a
Republican appointee—actually, he was
the first nominee I was able to vote on
as a U.S. Senator, and I voted for him.
This Republican appointee, well-re-
spected Supreme Court Justice, de-
clared that Judge Kavanaugh’s un-
hinged performance last week dem-
onstrates ‘‘potential bias.’’ Justice Ste-
vens said that ‘‘for the good of the
Court,’’ Judge Kavanaugh’s confirma-
tion ought not to proceed. Just yester-
day, contrary to the statements made
on the floor of the Senate, the Amer-
ican Bar Association announced that it
is reopening its evaluation of Judge
Kavanaugh’s fitness to serve as a
judge. These developments—both un-
precedented—should serve as flashing
red warning signs to any Senator in-
clined to vote yes at this time.
And there are more flashing red
signs.
Dr. Ford’s credible and compelling
testimony captivated the Nation and
inspired survivors of sexual violence
across the country. Every minute of
her testimony was credible. She dis-
closed the abuse long before Judge
Kavanaugh was a household name. She
remembered vivid details of that night.
She expressed 100 percent certainty
that Judge Kavanaugh was her abuser.
In a moment that I will never forget,
when I asked her: Doctor, what is your
strongest memory—something that she
could not forget—she testified: ‘‘Indel-
ible in the hippocampus is the laugh-
ter, the uproarious laughter between
the two’’ as a teenage Brett Kavanaugh
and a friend drunkenly assaulted Dr.
Ford.
Dr. Ford had nothing to gain by com-
ing forward. I believe her, just as I be-
lieved Anita Hill. In my view, no one
who truly believes Dr. Ford can
credibly justify voting yes. Unfortu-
nately, the Senate appears to be on the
brink of failing Dr. Ford, just as it will
fail Ms. Ramirez, and just as it failed
Anita Hill.
The FBI investigation completed
over the last few days falls short of any
standard. And it fell short by design.
We have already heard about its defi-
ciencies from Dr. Ford, Ms. Ramirez,
and numerous other witnesses who at-
tempted, unsuccessfully, to share rel-
evant information with the FBI.
Senate Republican leadership in the
White House did everything in their
power to ensure this investigation was
not a search for truth but rather a
search for cover. Even a basic search
for the truth would have allowed the
FBI to interview Judge Kavanaugh and
Dr. Ford, as well as her husband and
her therapist. A search for truth would
have allowed the FBI to view numerous
high school and college classmates who
come forward saying they could pro-
vide information about Judge
Kavanaugh’s conduct during those
years that was consistent with the al-
legation.
A search for the truth would have al-
lowed the FBI to interview a man who
wrote a sworn statement asserting he
could corroborate Ms. Ramirez’s alle-
gations or two women who contacted
authorities with evidence that Judge
Kavanaugh tried to head off Ms. Rami-
rez’s story before it became public.
That was in clear contradiction to his
testimony before the Judiciary Com-
mittee. A search for the truth would
have allowed the FBI to at least speak
with Julie Swetnick, a third accuser.
As Vermonters said to me last week-
end when I was home, if they have
nothing to hide, why the rush? If they
have nothing to hide, why don’t they
take the time to find the whole truth?
Instead of calling on the FBI to take
these basic investigatory steps,
inexplicably, the Republican-controlled
Judiciary Committee has solely tried
to discredit these women. The com-
mittee released a statement from a
former acquaintance of Ms. Swetnick.
This individual had no knowledge of
the alleged incident but instead wanted
to describe the alleged sexual pref-
erences of Ms. Swetnick. According to
the National Task Force to End Sexual
and Domestic Violence—one of the
most nonpartisan and respected voices
on Capitol Hill—this shameless at-
tempt to smear the victim violates the
intent of the Rape Shield law.
Look what happened. On the one
hand, you have the President of the
United States at a rally trying to
shame the victim, who, of course, is a
woman. Then, on the other hand, we
have Ms. Swetnick, who has never even
been interviewed by the FBI. She was
ignored. She was silenced. Then, to fol-
low the routine of this administration,
she was shamed. It is outrageous she
has been treated that way.
Republicans have also claimed the
other individuals Dr. Ford identified at
the gathering where she was assaulted
have refuted her testimony. These Re-
publicans know that is false. Those in-
dividuals stated publicly they do not
recall the event.
As Dr. Ford told the Judiciary Com-
mittee, this is not surprising, as ‘‘it
was a very unremarkable party . . . be-
cause nothing remarkable happened to
them that evening.’’ One of these indi-
viduals has said publicly she believes
Dr. Ford.
Republicans have claimed the inves-
tigation failed to review core objective
evidence for any of these allegations.
Despite the numerous restrictions
placed on this investigation, that sim-
ply is not true, but a predicate fact for
developing thorough corroborating evi-
dence is a thorough investigation. This
investigation fell far short. When I was
a prosecutor, I never would have al-
lowed an investigation to have left out
so many salient points. It is a dis-
service to Ms. Ford, Ms. Ramirez, Ms.
Swetnick. It is a disservice to survivors
everywhere.
The manic rush to place Judge
Kavanaugh on the bench was more im-
portant to many in this Senate than
these women. Pushing toward con-
firmation while so many leads remain
unexamined will forever taint a Justice
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.067 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6690 October 5, 2018
Kavanaugh, and, unfortunately, the
Supreme Court itself.
Yet truth can be dogged. It has a way
of coming out, eventually. For any
Senator who votes yes while troubling
new developments in this nominee are
occurring in real time, it will be on
their conscience when more disquali-
fying information later emerges—and
it will. I urge them to think carefully
about what a ‘‘yes’’ vote would mean to
the legitimacy of the Supreme Court,
to the integrity of the Senate, and to
the increasing divisiveness in our Na-
tion.
As partisan as this process has been,
this is not a partisan dilemma. Many
prominent conservatives will make a
fine Supreme Court Justice. As I said
at the beginning of my speech, I voted
for more Republican nominees than al-
most any Republican Senator in this
body, but these other people would not
cast a shadow over the Supreme Court
and a shadow over the U.S. Senate.
Judge Kavanaugh is not that choice.
To avoid risking permanent damage in
the integrity of our institution as a
government, I urge Senators to join me
in voting no on Judge Kavanaugh’s
nomination.
I yield the floor.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The Senator from Pennsyl-
vania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, we come
together today to talk about a critical
nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court
at a time when the Court will be con-
sidering a range of issues that are criti-
cally important to the American peo-
ple. Right now, one of the issues a lot
of Americans are most concerned about
is the issue of healthcare. There are so
many aspects to that issue we can ex-
amine today.
I will get to larger overriding con-
cerns I have with the nomination in a
moment. For now, what I will do is
walk through some concerns I have
when it comes to healthcare itself and,
in particular, Americans with disabil-
ities because I think, in this part of the
debate and in this part of Judge
Kavanaugh’s record and the potential
impact his decisions as an Associate
Justice of the Supreme Court will have
on healthcare itself and people with
disabilities—this whole part of his
record and what might happen has not
been examined enough in this debate.
I will start with healthcare. If Judge
Kavanaugh is confirmed today, he
could be the deciding vote in elimi-
nating key healthcare protections for
people with preexisting conditions—an
action that would have serious reper-
cussions on the healthcare of millions
of Americans. This administration and
congressional Republicans have been
trying for the better part of the last 2
years to rip away healthcare coverage
from the people who need it the most
across America.
Republicans in both branches of gov-
ernment—the executive branch and the
legislative branch—have attempted to
decimate Medicaid. Although they
have been unable so far to fully repeal
the Affordable Care Act in Congress,
the Republicans have turned to the
courts to sabotage the healthcare sys-
tem and the Affordable Care Act.
By the way, while we are mentioning
the Medicaid Program, let’s remind the
American people what that program is.
The Medicaid Program is not a ‘‘them’’
program, it is an ‘‘us’’ program. It is
about us—who we are as Americans,
whether we are going to take care of
the family of America.
I think my home State is representa-
tive of the impact Medicaid has on peo-
ple across the country. Forty percent
of the children in Pennsylvania get
their healthcare through the Medicaid
Program; 50 percent of the people with
disabilities in Pennsylvania rely upon
Medicaid; and 60 percent of seniors try-
ing to get into a nursing home for long-
term care in the twilight of their lives
rely upon the Medicaid Program. Forty
percent of the kids, 50 percent of people
with disabilities, and 60 percent of sen-
iors rely upon this program—some 70
million Americans.
The decisions by this Congress, or
this body, and the entire legislative
branch are critically important on
Medicaid and healthcare; obviously,
the decisions of the executive branch.
Now we have to focus as well on the ju-
dicial branch, especially with the nom-
ination that could tip the balance in 5-
to-4 decisions.
Judge Kavanaugh has twice disagreed
with rulings upholding the Affordable
Care Act. It is no coincidence he has
been nominated by this President, by
this administration. President Trump
apparently believes he can count on
Justice Kavanaugh, were he to be con-
firmed, to rule against the Affordable
Care Act when he is on the Supreme
Court, if he were to be confirmed
today.
You don’t have to take my word for
this. A former law clerk of Judge
Kavanaugh’s said it best when she
spoke up about Kavanaugh’s view of
the Affordable Care Act: ‘‘No other
contender on President Trump’s list is
on record so vigorously opposing the
law’’—the law meaning the Affordable
Care Act that brought healthcare to 20
million Americans, about more than
half of them because we expanded Med-
icaid.
Right now, courts are considering
whether people with preexisting condi-
tions should be protected from being
charged more, from being denied cov-
erage, or being dropped from their in-
surance simply because of their health
status. Who would ever believe that
after putting into law, enacting into
law, those protections for 130 million
Americans, we would still be debating
it and that an entire political party
would be in a court of law arguing
those protections are unconstitutional?
It is an insult to who we are as Ameri-
cans.
In Texas v. United States, the admin-
istration last sided with 20 Republican
State attorneys general and is refusing
to defend the Affordable Care Act’s
protections for people with preexisting
conditions. What is at stake in this
legal battle that could obviously end
up, down the road, in the Supreme
Court? It is 130 million Americans with
preexisting conditions. That means
people with diabetes or cancer or any-
thing else that is a preexisting condi-
tion could have their lives grossly ad-
versely impacted. The Supreme Court
might be the last line of defense to
maintaining those protections for peo-
ple with preexisting conditions. A Jus-
tice Kavanaugh could be the deciding
vote to rip away protections which are
in law now, right now, and they could
be taken away.
If Republicans were to win this fight,
coverage for millions of Americans who
have these protections would be ad-
versely impacted. That is probably an
understatement. We also have to be
concerned about the fundamentals of
our health insurance system—the fun-
damental stability of our healthcare
system, which could be undermined or
worse.
Such a decision by the Supreme
Court would have real-life con-
sequences. In Pennsylvania alone, 5.3
million people, including 643,000 chil-
dren, have a preexisting condition. I
will tell you the story of one of those
children.
Jackson Corbin is 13 years old and
lives in Hanover, PA. He lives with his
mother Anna, his father Michael, and
his brother Henry. Jackson, Henry, and
their mom all have Noonan syndrome—
a congenital disability that often in-
volves heart attacks, bleeding prob-
lems, possible developmental delays,
short stature, and malformation of the
rib cage—all of that in the life of one
child. Jackson’s most troubling con-
cern is a form of hemophilia called Von
Willebrand disease. Because of this dis-
ease, he has to be very careful not to
cut himself or to do things that might
cause internal bleeding. This means
Jackson cannot play sports. He cannot
roller skate or even jump on a trampo-
line. The cost of his healthcare—in-
cluding medications and treatments
and specialists—is more than what his
parents would make in a year. Without
health insurance coverage they are
able to purchase through the Afford-
able Care Act—including protections
for preexisting conditions—the Corbin
family would either go bankrupt or
Jackson, his mother, and his brother
would have to go without treatment,
risking their lives.
Last month Jackson testified in
front of the Judiciary Committee and
spoke about what Judge Kavanaugh’s
nomination meant for him, Jackson
Corbin.
My Noonan Syndrome is part of who I am.
It has been a part of me since the day I was
born, and will be a part of me for the rest of
my life. If you destroy protections for pre-
existing conditions, you will leave me and
all the kids and adults like me without care
or without the ability to afford our care—all
because of who we are.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.068 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6691
October 5, 2018
Let me repeat those last few words of
Jackson Corbin, 13 years old: ‘‘without
care or without the ability to afford
our care.’’
That is what we are talking about
here. Judge Kavanaugh could very well
be the deciding vote in determining the
future of this child and the future of
members of his family.
All of us, everybody in this building
today, are just one illness away—each
of us is just one injury away—from
having our own preexisting condition,
if we don’t have one already.
Maybe Senators and judges and Jus-
tices don’t have to worry about protec-
tions for preexisting conditions. Maybe
they can all buy that protection one
way or another, but 130 million Ameri-
cans have to worry and have to worry
about this consequential nomination
on an issue of such grave importance as
healthcare itself and maybe, most es-
pecially, protections for people with
preexisting conditions.
How about disabilities? Judge
Kavanaugh’s record on the rights of in-
dividuals with disabilities is troubling
as well. I will give you one example.
Liz Weintraub, like Jackson, testified
in front of the Judiciary Committee in
opposition to Judge Kavanaugh’s nomi-
nation to the Supreme Court. I know
Liz Weintraub well. She is 51 years old.
She is from Rockville, MD. She has
cerebral palsy and an intellectual dis-
ability. She had two loving parents and
three loving sisters, and for 4 months
this year, she was on my staff as a leg-
islative fellow. So I am not objective
when it comes to Liz Weintraub, but
here is what she told us. The work she
did, of course, on our staff was signifi-
cant. She helped to organize hearings
and worked on disability issues to edu-
cate our office and me, as well as other
Senate offices about the importance of
hiring people with disabilities.
But Liz experienced low expectations
in her life. She was told by educators
she could never attend college. She
spent 9 years in a private institution.
She was told she had to work in a shel-
tered workshop.
Despite these barriers, Liz persevered
and achieved her dream of being a dis-
ability policy advocate. Her knowl-
edge, experience, and wisdom made my
office a better place on these issues and
a better place to work in. It strength-
ened our office’s ability to work on dis-
ability policy.
Let’s get to the judge’s record on
these issues.
Judge Kavanaugh, on the DC Circuit,
shows a pattern of siding against indi-
viduals with disabilities. He has sided
with employers over employees who
have a disability, making it more dif-
ficult for employees to prove discrimi-
nation in court and have their rights
protected under the law.
In a case called Doe v. District of Co-
lumbia, he called into question the
very autonomy and right to self-deter-
mination of people with disabilities.
The case involved three women who
had intellectual disabilities and lived
in facilities run by the District of Co-
lumbia. The District allowed medical
professionals to decide when elective
surgeries would be performed on these
women without even consulting with
them and without even trying to deter-
mine the wishes of these three women.
The trial court sided with the women
in this case and said the District of Co-
lumbia had to attempt to determine
what these women wanted before mak-
ing medical decisions on their behalf.
Judge Kavanaugh overturned the lower
court decision. He questioned the basic
liberty of individuals with disabilities.
He allowed the government to continue
making medical decisions on behalf of
these three women in the District of
Columbia without ever attempting to
determine what they wanted.
This decision is offensive to the
American people, but it is offensive, I
think, to people with disabilities even
more so and to people who have fought
for decades to secure the rights of peo-
ple with disabilities. The decision
robbed these women of their autonomy,
and it robbed them of their humanity.
Liz Weintraub said in her testimony:
I worry that if a Justice on the Supreme
Court does not believe that we, as people
with intellectual disabilities, CAN MAKE de-
cisions for ourselves, then we will have the
right to make those decisions taken away
from us. . . . That is why I am opposing
Judge Kavanaugh.
These are the words of Liz
Weintraub, speaking for many Ameri-
cans with disabilities. I want to thank
Liz for her testimony and for coming
forward to speak on behalf of those
Americans.
These decisions about these rights
for people with disabilities don’t just
impact the individuals in the par-
ticular lawsuit. They also set a prece-
dent for future cases and send a mes-
sage about the values of our country
about whose rights we consider worthy
of protection.
If our courts don’t protect the rights
and dignity of people with disabilities,
then, what are our courts there for? We
have to ask that question.
I want to conclude with just a couple
of more comments.
There has been a lot of debate and a
lot of commentary and a lot of vig-
orous disagreement about the back and
forth that occurred just last week, but
I think I am like many Americans who
say I believe Dr. Ford’s testimony. I
thought she was both credible and per-
suasive, and I wrote the following ear-
lier this week in an op-ed in the Phila-
delphia Inquirer dated October 2, in de-
scribing part of her testimony, the ‘‘de-
tails of a sexual assault she experi-
enced as a 15-year-old’’—that made an
impression on Americans, of course.
Then, I went on to say: ‘‘the terror she
felt in that moment, the horror of the
physical assault, and the psychological
trauma of believing she might die.’’
I believe that testimony, and that
alone is troubling enough when it
comes to making a determination on
this nomination.
I was further concerned when I lis-
tened to the testimony of Judge
Kavanaugh, concerned about his lack
of judicial temperament—I think that
is an understatement in that moment—
and also whether or not he could be an
impartial Justice based upon what he
said in response to the allegations, and
especially what he was saying about
Democrats in the Senate.
So I will vote no for several reasons,
many of them outlined with regard to
healthcare and disability policy. I will
vote no on this nomination, and I urge
my colleagues to vote no as well.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, in a few
moments we will vote to confirm Judge
Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court.
It is time.
Justice Gorsuch and Justice
Sotomayor were confirmed 66 days
after they were nominated. Today
marks the 90th day since President
Trump nominated Judge Kavanaugh.
So this is in line with the timeframe
for previous Justices.
What is different, though, about this
nomination is the manifest unfairness
in the way it was conducted and in the
tone and behavior of some Senators, as
well as the special interest groups that
support them.
This institution used to be known as
the world’s greatest deliberative body,
but you wouldn’t know it now on this
nomination.
The Senator from Maine said yester-
day that we have hit rock bottom when
it comes to the judicial confirmation
process and, sadly, I agree—this, de-
spite the heroic efforts of Senator
GRASSLEY, who along with his staff,
has been magnificent as chairman of
the Judiciary Committee.
What precipitated this embarrassing
period for the Senate was the inten-
tional and deliberate withholding of
Dr. Ford’s allegations from the Judici-
ary Committee and Judge Kavanaugh
until the 11th hour, and then publicly
ambushing everyone else concerned.
It has been a process that, in words
that echo from another dark period for
the Senate, the McCarthy hearings, has
been cruel, reckless, and indecent, both
to Dr. Ford and Judge Kavanaugh.
Still, despite these hijinks and the
weaponization of the confirmation
process, we bent over backwards to try
to accommodate Dr. Ford once she said
she wanted to come before the com-
mittee.
We know she requested confiden-
tiality as her allegations were inves-
tigated. She did not consent to nor au-
thorize the release of her letter. She
didn’t want a public spectacle. Judici-
ary Committee staff even offered to fly
to California on a bipartisan basis and
interview her confidentially, but this
offer was not even shared with her by
her partisan lawyers. In other words,
she said she never understood that
offer was on the table. She thought the
only way she could tell her story was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.070 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6692 October 5, 2018
in the midst of the three-ring circus
that that hearing became.
But after the damage to her was done
when her identity became known, we
invited Dr. Ford to testify. She came
and did so, and I respect and admire
her courage. It could not have been
easy. We listened respectfully to her
story. We took it very seriously. We
treated her the same way we would
want our wives or daughters to be
treated, and we tried to learn the
facts—cold hard facts—as elicited by
an expert in dealing with sexual as-
sault cases.
We all know after the hearing what
that attorney told us because it be-
came public. She said, as a prosecutor,
she would never recommend charges
under these circumstances because, in
her view, there was no corroboration of
Dr. Ford’s account and there were in-
consistencies in her story regarding
the place, the time, and the people in-
volved in relevant events. In other
words, this was not a case of he said,
she said. It was a case of she said, they
said, including everyone Dr. Ford
claimed was a witness. Not only was
there no corroboration, but the alleged
witnesses refuted her claim, including
her best friend, Leland Keyser, who
said she never met Brett Kavanaugh.
Even after all of that, even after hid-
ing information that should have been
shared confidentially with the Judici-
ary Committee, even after the out-
rageous conduct by some Senators at
the first hearing, intentionally vio-
lating committee rules and seeking
delay after delay, even after that, we
took another additional step to address
any lingering concerns. The FBI
lunched a supplemental background in-
vestigation. There are two words to
note about this investigation: ‘‘supple-
mental’’ and ‘‘independent.’’ It is sup-
plemental because Judge Kavanaugh
has had six other previous background
investigations. This was the seventh. It
is independent, because now opponents
are saying: Well, the investigation was
merely checking a box. It wasn’t thor-
ough or comprehensive enough.
But that simply doesn’t jibe with the
facts. The FBI was told to investigate
current credible allegations, and they
had a free rein to contact anyone they
wanted, and they contacted many of
the people that our Democratic col-
leagues, Dr. Ford, and Ms. Ramirez
themselves said were eyewitnesses or
persons with relevant knowledge. I am
talking about folks like Mark Judge
and others.
So opponents are trying to have it
both ways: They demand an investiga-
tion but then badmouth it when it
doesn’t reveal what they hoped it
would. Politics should not have and
didn’t dictate the terms of this supple-
mental background investigation. The
FBI knows how to do its work, and now
opponents of this nomination should
accept its findings.
But this has never been a search for
the truth by Senators who had already
announced their opposition to this
nomination—some of them, even before
Judge Kavanaugh was named. Rather,
it has become a matter of delay, defeat,
and destroy.
I do believe the Senator from Arizona
and others who joined in his request
did us a great favor by insisting on the
FBI supplemental background inves-
tigation. The American people can feel
better that leads have been followed
and exhausted for those still interested
in a search for the facts.
The American people now know that
we took it upon ourselves to take one
last step to dispel any doubts about
Judge Kavanaugh’s fitness to serve on
the highest Court in the land, and now
that step is complete. So to Senators
FLAKE, COLLINS, and others who re-
quested that supplemental background
investigation, I say thank you.
Both Dr. Ford and Judge Kavanaugh
have been badly treated throughout
this process. Dr. Ford has been treated
less as a real person than as a poker
chip in a card game. Her wishes for
confidentiality were ignored, her letter
was leaked, and her story was
weaponized in a political ambush.
This whole sad charade has likewise
been unfair to Judge Kavanaugh. These
allegations could and should have been
investigated by the committee under
normal procedures and timelines de-
signed to protect both the accuser and
the accused. Instead, we got mob rule.
Some blame Judge Kavanaugh for his
righteous indignation and impassioned
defense at the second hearing, but as
somebody who served for 13 years on
the bench myself, I know the difference
between deciding a case as a judge for
which Judge Kavanaugh’s tempera-
ment has been universally praised and
defending oneself against character as-
sassination and personal destruction.
Judge Kavanaugh understands the dif-
ference, too, and I have no doubt what-
soever about his judicial temperament.
Imagine what this has been like for
Judge Kavanaugh’s parents or his wife
or his children or the friends and col-
leagues who know the real Brett
Kavanaugh—shocking or embarrassing
doesn’t begin to describe it. I am dis-
appointed more than I can say at those
who have unleashed these unjustified
attacks on the judge and his family
and disappointed in their lack of any
empathy or remorse for what they have
put them through—no empathy, no re-
morse, none.
For some of them, it seems the end
justifies the means. Chew good people
up, spit them out. No problem. All in a
day’s work.
After the dust settles on this dark
period, we need to think about the
damage all of this has done to the Sen-
ate as an institution and to the judicial
confirmation process that we most cer-
tainly will embark upon again in the
near future.
It is my hope—it is my prayer—that
the politics of personal destruction,
simply because you don’t agree with
the nominee’s judicial philosophy or
the President who nominated him or
her, will stop. The low road is not
available to us anymore because there
is no lower road than the one we have
been on.
It is my hope that some of the tactics
we have seen—intimidation, bullying,
violating the rules, taunting Members,
trying to coerce them through bribes,
carpet bombing them with TV ads,
sending them coat hangers in the mail,
screaming at them in the hallway—
these cannot become the new normal.
So we cannot reward those tactics. I
guarantee that if these tactics had suc-
ceeded in blocking Judge Kavanaugh,
they would become the new normal,
and that ought to chasten all of us. I
hope we have learned a painful lesson
these last few weeks and will strive to
do better. I pledge my good faith and
best efforts to do so and to try to help.
We should recall the not-so-distant
past when Ruth Ginsburg, the former
counsel for the American Civil Lib-
erties Union, was confirmed by a vote
of 96 to 3; when Justice Scalia was con-
firmed by a vote of 98 to 0; and John
Paul Stevens was confirmed by a vote
of 98 to 0 as well. In a rational, logical
world, Judge Kavanaugh should have
similarly lopsided numbers; that is, if
people were willing to get past their
tribalism and look at our nominee’s
record, look at over the 300 opinions he
has authored, the decisions he has au-
thored that the Supreme Court has
unanimously embraced. If they would
look at his scholarship, talk to his
former colleagues and law clerks, if op-
ponents were willing to do that hon-
estly and thoroughly, they would have
found a brilliant individual who cuts
no corners in his legal analysis, who
lets the chips fall where they may, and
respects the very important but lim-
ited role of the judiciary in our con-
stitutional system.
In my view, a vote against Judge
Kavanaugh is an endorsement of the
way the opponents have mishandled
and abused the confirmation process,
as well as the shameful intimidation
tactics they employed.
A ‘‘no’’ vote neglects all the man is
and all he has accomplished based on
unproven accusations about adolescent
conduct. It justifies the manipulation
and mistreatment of people like Dr.
Ford for political gain. It would estab-
lish a dangerous precedent and legiti-
mize mob rule, including the presump-
tion of guilt in violation of everything
in our Constitution—
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator will suspend.
The Sergeant at Arms will restore
order in the Galleries.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, it would
establish a dangerous precedent.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator will suspend.
As a reminder to our guests in the
Galleries, expressions of approval or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.071 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6693
October 5, 2018
disapproval are not permitted in the
Senate Galleries.
The Senator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, it would
establish a dangerous precedent and le-
gitimize mob rule, including the pre-
sumption of guilt, in violation of ev-
erything our Constitution and funda-
mental notions of fairness that we
stand for.
Some say we are a nation divided,
but I am not so pessimistic as some. I
actually hope we can all learn, we must
learn, I believe, from this cruel, reck-
less, and indecent episode, but a ‘‘no’’
vote will not unite us; it will help re-
ward despicable tactics and set a new
ugly precedent. It will only encourage
the spurning of tradition and agreed-
upon rules, norms, and process. We
should not ignore, we cannot acquiesce
in or condone what has happened here.
We should send a message loud and
clear that the U.S. Senate will not be
intimidated.
I will cast my vote in favor of Judge
Kavanaugh’s confirmation to the Su-
preme Court of the United States.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator will suspend.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Ser-
geant At Arms will restore order to the
Galleries.
The Sergeant at Arms will restore
order to the Galleries.
As a reminder to our guests in the
Galleries, expressions of approval or
disapproval are not permitted in the
Senate Galleries.
The assistant Democratic leader.
Mr. DURBIN. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
Let me say at the outset that I would
like to set the record straight on the
question of the FBI interview, which
has been raised repeatedly by Members
on the other side of the aisle.
It was our request from the start,
when we heard the complaints of Dr.
Ford and her allegations, that there be
a thorough FBI investigation. On the
Democratic side, we asked for that re-
peatedly from the Republican major-
ity. It wasn’t until Senator FLAKE and
some of his Republican colleagues
made a point of saying they wouldn’t
move to go forward without the FBI in-
vestigation that it finally was agreed
to.
Let me also add that statements
have been made publicly by the public
spokesman at the White House about
how the witnesses were chosen for this
FBI investigation. According to Mr.
Shah, who works in the White House,
he told us that a list of witnesses was
sent by Senate Republicans to the
White House, and they were included in
their request. That is not the inves-
tigation we were looking for. We were
hoping the FBI would revert to its pro-
fessional status and interview all of the
witnesses who are relevant. Certainly,
among those relevant witnesses would
have been Dr. Ford herself who could
have been questioned under penalty of
criminal prosecution if she misled or
lied to the FBI, who could have pro-
vided substantial corroborative infor-
mation. She was never called on. Nei-
ther was Judge Kavanaugh by the FBI.
Dr. Ford provided eight different wit-
nesses whom she thought should be
called to back up her side of the story,
not a single one of them was called by
the FBI. Ms. Ramirez suggested 20 wit-
nesses be called on by the FBI on her
behalf, and not one of them was called.
This was not the FBI investigation
which we sought, nor does it clear the
charges against Kavanaugh that were
raised by Dr. Ford. In fact, it was a
scant interview that involved some 10
witnesses in a matter of just a few days
with a limited roster of people who
were going to be questioned.
Let me speak to the matter at hand
in a larger context. I have been in pub-
lic life for a few years, but I have never
seen the public reaction to this par-
ticular nomination and the hearings
leading up to it that I have seen in this
case.
I went back to Illinois last week on
Friday. Before I could get off the air-
plane at Midway Airport, people were
talking to me—just passengers at ran-
dom, about what had happened the day
before with Dr. Ford and Judge
Kavanaugh testifying before our com-
mittee. The same thing happened with
cab drivers, the doorman at the hotel
holding an umbrella in the rain and
talking to me about the testimony
that was given to the Judiciary Com-
mittee. For the next 3 days, every-
where I turned, every person had a
comment to make. America was tuned
in and watching carefully because they
knew how important this hearing was.
It wasn’t just the nomination for some-
one to serve on the Supreme Court. It
was critically important to Americans
to know who would be that person,
what their views were when it came to
the health of women, the protection of
our health insurance, our privacy, our
right to vote. It also was very clear
that we held this hearing in the con-
text of a national debate on sexual har-
assment and sexual violence. Is it any
surprise that this explosive issue,
which has touched corporate board-
rooms, our churches, sports, Congress,
has now been raised in our debate over
a nomination to our highest Court?
I ask my colleagues: Is there a single
one of us in the last 2 weeks who has
not had an experience with someone
coming forward, either in writing or in
person, to tell you of their experience
when it came to sexual harassment and
sexual violence?
Just a few minutes ago, I read the
latest letters we received in our office.
Two women from my State of Illinois
told me in their letters they were say-
ing for the first time what actually
happened to them many years ago and
how much they identified with Dr.
Ford and what she had gone through.
That is a fact of life.
The fact that this touched a nerve
with so many Americans, and particu-
larly women who have gone through
this experience, should put this whole
debate in context. It should not be
cheapened or lessened by political
charges. We ought to understand the
gravity of this debate in light of the
cultural change we are now facing in
America.
This afternoon, we have reached that
day of reckoning. Those of us who
count votes for a living know how this
will end, but I want to make it clear
there is something we need to remem-
ber. One of the closest votes in the his-
tory of the Supreme Court will occur
this afternoon with Judge Kavanaugh’s
nomination. One has to go back 137
years in American history to find a
closer vote for a Supreme Court Jus-
tice. That portrays the seriousness
with which this matter has been con-
sidered and undertaken by Members of
the Senate and how divided we are on
this nomination.
I want to ask my colleagues not just
to reflect on this afternoon but to re-
flect on tomorrow. What about the fu-
ture of this Supreme Court and this
important critical institution in our
Constitution?
Six years ago, in the days before the
NFIB v. Sebelius decision deciding the
fate of the Affordable Care Act, a Pew
Research poll showed that the public
approval of the Supreme Court had
reached an all-time low. Citizens
United and Bush v. Gore had branded
the Supreme Court as a political tool
in the eyes of most Americans. Chief
Justice Roberts stepped in and wrote a
decision in that case which infuriated
conservatives but brought momentary
credibility to the Court.
Filling this critical Kennedy vacancy
with Judge Kavanaugh will again raise
the question about Supreme Court poli-
tics.
Chief Justice Roberts, are you watch-
ing?
What can we expect from this newest
Member of the Court, Brett
Kavanaugh? After his contentious
nomination process, Clarence Thomas
gave us 10 years of brooding silence on
the Bench of the Supreme Court. What
can we expect from this new Justice?
Will he be the soup kitchen volunteer
or the Federalist Society favorite?
Will he be the man who raged at the
Clintons and promised revenge for his
ordeal or the judge who impressed Sen-
ator COLLINS as more moderate than
most of us on this side of the aisle ever
found him?
Will he be a Justice forever grateful
to President Trump who nominated
him, or a Justice who honors the rule
of law more than any political leader
or political party?
And what about this Senate? What
should the next Supreme Court va-
cancy look like? Will we continue to
follow the Merrick Garland plow-it-
through playbook of judicial appoint-
ments at any cost, freezing out a nomi-
nee to the Supreme Court for almost 1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.073 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6694 October 5, 2018
year, abandoning the blue-slip process
in the Senate Judiciary Committee, ig-
noring American Bar Association rat-
ings, overturning rules protecting de-
bate, concealing documents, tweeting
confidential background investigation
reports? When we sweep aside all of the
rules and traditions of the Senate Judi-
ciary Committee just to pile up more
and more Republican appointments to
the Court, what is left?
Thomas More, in ‘‘A Man for All Sea-
sons,’’ said famously:
And when the last law was down and the
Devil turned round on you, where would you
hide . . . the laws all being flat?
And if you cut them down . . . do you real-
ly think you could stand upright in the
winds that would blow then?
So will we establish and reestablish
rules and procedures that show mutual
respect for one another as Senators and
respect for this body we are honored to
serve? I sincerely hope that conversa-
tion begins and begins soon.
I want to say a word about the lead-
ers on the Judiciary Committee. CHUCK
GRASSLEY is my friend. He has been my
friend for a long time. We do a lot of
legislation together. We have a dif-
ference of political views. He is a loyal
Republican; I am a loyal Democrat. We
have adjoining States, and we find
some things that we can work on in
common. I want to say personally to
Senator GRASSLEY: Thank you for your
leadership on this committee. I think
there are moments when the White
House and even your staff got the best
of you. But I trust CHUCK GRASSLEY in
terms of where this committee is
going. You have it within your power
to restore the traditions of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, and I hope that
you will. I will join you in that effort.
I want to say a word about DIANNE
FEINSTEIN too. She has been the sub-
ject of more attacks by my colleagues
than I have ever heard any Member
face in the Senate. It is just not fair.
DIANNE FEINSTEIN is a woman of integ-
rity. She is a person who is caring, and
she has given a major part of her life in
public service at so many different lev-
els.
Some of the charges and innuendo
that I have heard on the floor of the
Senate are unbefitting this body, and
she does not deserve them. I thank
Senator COLLINS yesterday for specifi-
cally saying that in her remarks. I
couldn’t be more happy than to join
her in those comments.
I want to say a word about protesting
and mob rule. I will tell you that if you
believe in freedom of speech and our
right as citizens to petition our govern-
ment, then you accept some tough con-
sequences. There are things that are
said and done in the name of free
speech that you may not agree with.
Violence is never acceptable; let me
make that clear. But the decision that
is about to be made in the United
States is not being made by a mob. It
is not mob rule. It is a decision made
by men and women of the Senate who
are acting in accordance with the U.S.
Constitution.
One last point on the subject—this is
one that I always remind my col-
leagues and even my opponents of. I be-
lieve the hottest ring in hell is reserved
for those who attack our children and
our families. If you want to take me
out on an issue, so be it. Leave my
family, my kids alone. That ought to
be a rule on both sides of the aisle.
There is another issue we need to
face squarely: Will victims of sexual vi-
olence be more or less likely to step
forward and tell their stories after this
high-profile political battle ends?
To Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, to your
husband and your children: I will never
forget your brave testimony last
Thursday. You gave new meaning to
the term civic duty. You spoke not just
for yourself but for millions of sexual
violence victims who will never ever
have that opportunity. I am sorry—
genuinely sorry—for the pain that you
and your family endured. And I am
sorry you were mocked by President
Trump at his rally in Mississippi last
Tuesday.
The Washington Post reported:
The President laid into Ford with the ruth-
lessness of an attack dog and the pacing of a
stand-up comedian. The crowd roared with
laughter and applause.
No one could have been surprised
with the President’s performance. And
when I hear repeated over and over
again on the other side of the aisle ‘‘We
wanted to treat her just as we would
have our wife or our daughter to be
treated,’’ that certainly didn’t happen
when it came to the President’s com-
ments. We owe it to our wives, daugh-
ters, granddaughters, and all the
women and men in this country who
have been victimized to treat them
with respect, not ridicule. We owe it to
these victims to listen, learn, and
stand with them as they relive their
shattering experiences.
I believe the debate over this nomi-
nation has created a stronger force in
our Nation for justice for victims of
sexual violence, and I hope those who
step forward know that they are not
alone. Thank you for your courage.
Tomorrow is another day. We are
blessed to live in a democracy that pro-
tects our freedoms and gives our citi-
zens the last word at the polling place.
Today, I will cast my vote in the
Senate in opposition to the nomination
of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme
Court.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, be-
fore I speak, I ask unanimous consent
that following my remarks and those
of Senators SCHUMER and MCCONNELL,
all postcloture time be considered ex-
pired on this nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
come one final time in support of
Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation to
serve as Associate Justice of the
United States Supreme Court.
Democratic leaders did everything in
their power to make Judge
Kavanaugh’s confirmation about any-
thing except his judicial record and his
outstanding academic qualifications.
The Democratic leaders promised to
oppose Judge Kavanaugh’s confirma-
tion from day one and use every play in
the book to accomplish that goal.
Even though the Senate had access
to more of Judge Kavanaugh’s records
than we have had for any other Su-
preme Court nominee, Democratic
leaders tried to bury the Judiciary
Committee in mountains of irrelevant
paperwork.
When routine process arguments
failed, they resorted to outright char-
acter assassination of the judge. Their
smear campaign featured baseless alle-
gations of perjury and claims that, as a
teenager, he participated in gang rapes
of women.
I have been around long enough to
see ugly leftwing smear campaigns
against Supreme Court nominees, but
this was beyond the pale—even beyond
Judge Thomas and Anita Hill, and I
was there.
I am encouraged that most of my col-
leagues had the courage to stand
against the politics of personal de-
struction. Ignored in the media circus
that the Democratic leaders created
was Judge Kavanaugh’s extraordinary
record as a judge and also as a citizen.
I have said from the day the Presi-
dent announced Judge Kavanaugh’s
nomination on July 9 that Judge
Kavanaugh is quite possibly the most
qualified person ever nominated to the
Supreme Court. He has spent 25 years
of his career at the highest levels of
government, including the last 12 years
as a judge on the second most impor-
tant Federal court.
Judge Kavanaugh’s record on the DC
Circuit has been outstandingly remark-
able. On a court containing some of the
brightest legal minds, Judge
Kavanaugh has set himself apart. The
Supreme Court, in at least 12 separate
cases, adopted positions advanced in
Judge Kavanaugh’s lower court opin-
ions.
As the liberal law professor, Amar,
wrote in the New York Times:
Good appellate judges faithfully follow the
Supreme Court; great ones influence and
help steer it. Several of Judge Kavanaugh’s
most important ideas and arguments . . .
have found their way into the Supreme
Court opinions.
Judge Kavanaugh will not only bring
his keen intellect and deep knowledge
of the law to the Supreme Court; he
will bring some other very important
judicial characteristics as well. First
among these is a proper understanding
of the role of a judge in our constitu-
tional system. He knows that a judge
should interpret and apply law as writ-
ten, not how he wishes it were written.
As we all know, it is Congress’s job to
write the laws, not judges’.
He has explained in numerous cases
that the fundamental goal of the sepa-
ration of powers under our constitu-
tional system is the protection of indi-
vidual liberty. He has interpreted the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.075 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6695
October 5, 2018
Constitution according to text, his-
tory, and tradition, not his own per-
sonal views. That is exactly the type of
a person we need on the Supreme
Court.
Judge Kavanaugh has also dem-
onstrated judicial independence and
courage. In the 2 years after he was ap-
pointed to the DC Circuit by President
George W. Bush, he ruled against Bush
administration agencies on 23 cases. So
don’t let anybody tell you that he is
obligated to President Trump. We can
expect that Justice Kavanaugh will be
beholden to no one and nothing except
the Constitution.
Judge Kavanaugh also has a well-
earned reputation for collegiality. He
has an excellent relationship with all
of his colleagues on the DC Circuit, and
his judicial record demonstrates the
same.
Indeed, Judge Kavanaugh was in the
majority in 97 percent of the cases that
he participated in on that DC Circuit.
His Democratic-appointed colleagues
were as likely to join majority opin-
ions written by Judge Kavanaugh as
his Republican-appointed colleagues
were. He will bridge the divide on the
Supreme Court.
Judge Kavanaugh has also shown a
dedication to public service, to
mentorship, and to diversity. He spent
all but 3 years of his legal career in
public service. Judge Kavanaugh is a
proven mentor to law students and
young lawyers.
Judge Kavanaugh has taught courses
at Harvard Law School and other top
law schools for many years. The Senate
Judiciary Committee received a letter
in support of his confirmation from
these former students. They wrote:
We may have differing views on political
issues surrounding the confirmation process,
but we all agree on one thing: Judge
Kavanaugh is a rigorous thinker, a devoted
teacher, and a gracious person.
Federal judges also play a very im-
portant role in mentoring the next gen-
eration of lawyers by hiring law clerks.
Judge Kavanaugh has clearly taken se-
riously this mentorship role. His
former law clerks submitted a letter to
this committee strongly supporting his
confirmation.
I quote from that letter:
It was a tremendous stroke of luck to work
for and be mentored by a person of his
strength of character, generosity of spirit,
intellectual capacity, and unwavering care
for his family, friends, colleagues, and us, his
law clerks.
One of the areas in which Judge
Kavanaugh has had a particular impact
is in his commitment to diversity.
More than half of his law clerks have
been female. When confirmed to the
Supreme Court, his class of law clerks
will be all female—for the first time in
the history of the Supreme Court.
Judge Kavanaugh’s female law clerks
sent the committee a letter, which
reads:
We know all too well that women in the
workplace still face challenges, inequality,
and even harassment. Among other things,
women do not enjoy a representative share
of prestigious clerkships or high-profile legal
positions, but this committee and the Amer-
ican public more broadly should be aware of
the important work Judge Kavanaugh has
done to remedy those disparities. In our
view, the judge has been one of the strongest
advocates in the Federal judiciary for
women lawyers.
As I think about history, it leads me
to this: The confirmation of Judge
Kavanaugh is particularly meaningful
to me. Thirty-one years ago, leftwing
groups and their Senate allies fired the
opening shots in the judicial confirma-
tion wars. They engaged, at that time,
in unprecedented character assassina-
tions against President Reagan’s nomi-
nee, Judge Robert Bork.
Since then, they have only escalated
this war—slandering several Repub-
lican nominees to the Supreme Court
and expanding their tactics to lower
court nominees. So then, as history
tells us, more than three decades later,
leftwing groups and their Democratic
allies in this body went back to the
very same playbook. They tried the
very same character assassination tac-
tics against the person nominated to
the very same seat that Judge Robert
Bork was supposed to fill.
They succeeded 31 years ago, but,
this time, they failed. So I look for-
ward to voting to confirm Judge
Kavanaugh this afternoon and to greet-
ing him as ‘‘Justice Kavanaugh’’ the
next time I see him.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TOOMEY). The Senator from Arizona.
Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I know that
the Democratic leader is scheduled to
speak next, but if there is a minute
that I could take in between, I just
wanted to comment on my colleague
who spoke yesterday, Senator COLLINS.
I had wanted to come to the floor to
speak on her behalf, but too many
other people had been speaking at that
time. People had remarked on her com-
ments and reflected on the fact that
she had done her homework, and she,
indeed, had. I, simply, wanted to relay
this anecdote.
When I helped to introduce Judge
Kavanaugh to my fellow former Sen-
ators, former colleagues, I think of all
of the meetings that we had, and many
of them were lawyers who are Sen-
ators. Probably the most thorough
meeting of all was that held with Sen-
ator COLLINS. She had clearly done her
homework, and the interview with
Judge Kavanaugh consumed more than
2 hours without a break. It was a grill-
ing that could have been done by any
fine lawyer because she had clearly
done her homework and was very well
prepared, and I know she did further
followup after that.
I do want to commend her for the
depth and the breadth of her com-
ments. As the Wall Street Journal said
this morning, she not only debated like
it used to be done in this body—with
evidence and sound reasoning—but also
with a reference to our founding prin-
ciples and the higher things that
should motivate our public service and
our discussions here on the Senate
floor.
So I wanted to take this opportunity
to commend her for her remarks and to
tell those who don’t know her that this
was par for the course. Her perform-
ance was magnificent, but it was not
out of the ordinary for Senator COL-
LINS. I just wanted my colleagues to
know that.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, in a
short time, the Senate will take a final
vote on the nomination of Judge
Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. The
road that led us here has been bitter,
angry, and partisan, steeped in hypoc-
risy, hyperbole, resentment, and out-
rage.
From start to finish, President
Trump’s nomination of Brett
Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court
has been one of the saddest moments in
the history of the Senate. When the
history of the Senate is written, this
chapter will be a flashing red warning
light of what to avoid. Truly, Judge
Kavanaugh’s confirmation is a low mo-
ment for the Senate, for the Court, and
for the country.
The Republican majority has con-
ducted one of the least transparent,
least fair, and most biased processes in
Senate history, slanting the table from
the very beginning to produce their de-
sired result.
Why do I say this? Because they
withheld over 90 percent of the nomi-
nee’s record from the Senate and the
American people; because they refused
to allow Dr. Ford to call a single cor-
roborating witness at the hearing, in-
cluding the only other eyewitness to
the incident; because they refused to
have an independent investigation of
the facts before the hearing in order to
inform the questioning; because they
hired an outside prosecutor to question
Dr. Ford, as if she were on trial; be-
cause the White House kept the FBI in-
vestigation on a short leash, dictating
the scope and even the kinds of ques-
tions the FBI was allowed to ask; be-
cause Republican Senators, sensing
after Dr. Ford’s testimony that a de-
bate about the truth and facts was not
working, adopted a cynical new strat-
egy to shout, pound the table, and por-
tray Judge Kavanaugh as the helpless
victim of some unseen partisan con-
spiracy; because the President of the
United States, stooping to new
depths—even for him—chose to stand
before a crowd of thousands and cruelly
ridicule a survivor of sexual assault;
and because this grossly distorted, bi-
ased, and unfair process, run by the Re-
publican majority, the Senate is about
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.076 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6696 October 5, 2018
to elevate a nominee who doesn’t be-
long on the Nation’s highest Bench.
Now, why doesn’t Judge Kavanaugh
belong on the Bench in the Nation’s
highest Court? Judge Kavanaugh
doesn’t belong on the Bench because he
obscured his views, shrouding his juris-
prudence in smoke so thick that the
American people would never know
what he really believed.
Judge Kavanaugh doesn’t belong on
the Bench because he was chosen by a
President and a far-right organization,
both dedicated to overturning and un-
dermining Roe v. Wade, and he did not
a thing to refute the presumption that
he would want to overturn it too.
Judge Kavanaugh doesn’t belong on
the Bench because he was chosen by
far-right organizations that are bent
on repealing healthcare protections for
Americans with preexisting conditions,
and he did nothing to refute the pre-
sumption that he would too.
Judge Kavanaugh doesn’t belong on
the Bench because he believes Presi-
dents should not be subject to inves-
tigations of any kind while in office—a
distortion of our founding principle
that no person is above the law.
Judge Kavanaugh does not belong on
the Bench because his jurisprudence is
deeply skeptical of environmental pro-
tections, consumer protections, work-
ers’ rights, civil rights, LGBT rights,
rights of treaties and agreements with
Native Americans, and a host of other
hard-earned rights.
Mr. SCHUMER. Judge Kavanaugh
doesn’t belong on the Bench because he
has repeatedly misled the Senate, put-
ting into serious doubt his credibility.
A judge must be credible, believable,
and honest, above all.
Judge Kavanaugh doesn’t belong on
the Bench because he is an extreme
partisan—something we have seen from
his earliest days in his career and re-
confirmed when he gave one of the
bitterest, most partisan testimonies
ever presented by a nominee.
Judge Kavanaugh doesn’t belong on
the Bench because of his injudicious
demeanor. His partisan screed will go
down ignominiously in history and
make it clear that it would be virtually
impossible for him to rule impartially
on the Supreme Court. Judges must be
temperate, judicious, and evenhanded.
Judge Kavanaugh is anything but.
Republican leaders knew before he
was nominated that Judge Kavanaugh
was a very flawed choice, but once
President Trump selected him, Repub-
licans decided they had to rush him
through. They became a steamroller
over truth, fairness, and our traditions
of bipartisan cooperation—any means
necessary to reach their desired end.
They blamed Dr. Ford and Democrats
for Judge Kavanaugh’s flaws.
They were intent on shrouding the
truth, because they knew that if the
truth came to light, Judge Kavanaugh
would be exposed as a truly flawed
nominee.
So, my colleagues, my fellow Ameri-
cans, what is the appropriate response?
Our country needs to have a reck-
oning on these issues, and there is only
one remedy. Change must come from
where change in America always be-
gins—the ballot box.
So to Americans, to so many millions
who are outraged by what happened
here, there is one answer: Vote.
If you believe Dr. Ford and other
brave women who came forward and
you want to vindicate their sacrifice,
vote.
If you believe the Supreme Court
should uphold women’s rights, vote.
If you believe the Supreme Court
must protect healthcare and our pre-
existing conditions that are protected
now, vote.
If you believe the Supreme Court
should defend workers, consumers, the
environment, civil rights, and Native
populations, vote.
If you believe the Supreme Court
should be a check on an overreaching
President, vote.
If you believe the process here in the
Senate was a sham and you believe
Americans deserve better, vote.
If you believe that Supreme Court
Justices should conform to the highest
standards of character, impartiality,
temperament and, above all, honesty
and credibility, vote.
I understand and I share the deep an-
guish that millions of Americans are
experiencing today, but I say to you,
my fellow Americans, there is one an-
swer: Vote.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
‘‘the Constitution of the United States
was made not merely for a generation
that then existed, but for posterity.’’
Those are the words of Henry Clay,
Kentucky’s own. They underscore that
the decision U.S. Senators will make
today will echo in the history of our
Nation.
The very survival of our constitu-
tional form of government requires an
expert and independent judiciary.
Without fair and impartial ‘‘courts of
justice,’’ as Alexander Hamilton put it
in the Federalist Papers, ‘‘all the res-
ervations of particular rights or privi-
leges would amount to nothing.’’
The courts guard our rights and the
Senate guards our courts. That is why
today is such an important day. That is
why the vote we take this afternoon—
a vote to confirm a new Associate Jus-
tice of the Supreme Court of the
United States—represents one of the
most consequential decisions a Senator
ever makes.
The Members of this body are duty
bound to ensure we confirm Justices of
the Supreme Court who are men and
women of the highest character and
the most superlative qualifications.
Fortunately, that is just the sort of
nominee who stands before us today.
Twelve weeks ago, the President
nominated a jurist who has been de-
scribed by legal peers of all political
stripes as ‘‘a superstar’’ and a ‘‘serious
scholar’’ who is ‘‘legendary for his
preparation’’ and possesses ‘‘the quali-
fications, the temperament, and judi-
cial philosophy to be an excellent Asso-
ciate Justice.’’
The President nominated a brilliant
student of the law. Those who taught
and knew the nominee at Yale say ‘‘it
is hard to name anyone with judicial
credentials as strong as Judge
Kavanaugh.’’ They describe a ‘‘true in-
tellectual,’’ ‘‘a leading thinker,’’ and a
‘‘wonderful mentor and teacher.’’
Those he has mentored—a diverse
group of bright young lawyers who
clerked for Judge Kavanaugh—talk
about his work ethic, his ‘‘unflinch-
ingly honest advice,’’ and his ‘‘funda-
mental humility.’’
For 12 weeks, the Senate has seen
that this is not empty praise. We have
seen the legendary preparation of a
tireless judge. We have seen the pa-
tience of a committed mentor and
teacher. We have seen the humility of
a true intellectual who let his record
speak for itself.
Each of us has seen this for our-
selves. Every Senator who came into
this process with an open mind has
seen that very same Brett Kavanaugh
firsthand.
We have seen his brilliance, his
painstaking thoroughness on display in
the 300-plus opinions he issued on the
DC Circuit. For 12 years, Judge
Kavanaugh excelled on the bench that
many experts see as the second most
important court in our Nation.
We have seen his geniality and kind-
ness firsthand in our private meetings
with the nominee—precisely the colle-
gial approach that is so necessary on
the Court.
We have seen his professional excel-
lence as we reviewed more pages of
documents pertaining to Judge
Kavanaugh’s career than for any other
Supreme Court nomination in our his-
tory—pages that depict a meticulous
and dedicated public servant. And, yes,
we have now studied the results of
seven—seven—FBI background inves-
tigations—inquiries that have produced
no evidence whatsoever to corroborate
any prior misconduct but rather are
consistent with all we know about this
nominee’s sterling character.
This historically tall mountain of
evidence adds up to one clear message:
Judge Brett Kavanaugh is among the
very best our Nation has to offer. He
will make the Senate and the country
proud. He will serve with distinction on
our highest Court.
He unquestionably deserves con-
firmation and the country deserves
such a Supreme Court Justice.
Now, as I have explained, the stakes
are always high—always high—where a
Supreme Court confirmation is con-
cerned, but this time—this time—the
stakes are higher—a lot higher than
they have been in the past.
I can’t sum this up better than our
friend and distinguished colleague, the
senior Senator from Maine, put it in
her historic remarks yesterday. This is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.078 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6697
October 5, 2018
what the senior Senator from Maine
said: ‘‘It is when passions are most in-
flamed that fairness is most in jeop-
ardy.’’ She said, ‘‘when passions are
most inflamed’’ is when ‘‘fairness is
most in jeopardy.’’
We all know that the events of recent
weeks have strained the country’s com-
ity and fanned the flames of partisan
discord. But, even more critically, our
very commitment to the basic prin-
ciples of fairness and justice is also
being tested. The basic principles of
fairness and justice are being tested
right here.
A vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh
today is also a vote to send a clear
message about what the Senate is.
This is an institution where the evi-
dence and the facts matter. This is an
institution where the evidence and the
facts matter. This is a Chamber in
which the politics of intimidation and
personal destruction do not win the
day.
This is the body whose Members
themselves uphold the same commit-
ment to American justice that we seek
in the judges we examine.
A vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh
today is a vote to end this brief, dark
chapter in the Senate’s history and to
turn the page toward a brighter tomor-
row.
The Chamber we are privileged to oc-
cupy is often called the world’s great-
est deliberative body for good reason.
We are called the world’s greatest de-
liberative body for a good reason. When
the rubber meets the road, when the
hour is critical, when a historic prece-
dent needs to be set, the U.S. Senate
most often finds its way to doing what
is right.
Today, we can honor that history. We
can vote to turn away from the dark-
ness. We can vote to set a precedent
about fairness and judgment that will
define this body for the better. We can
vote to confirm an excellent Supreme
Court Justice who will make the Sen-
ate and the American people proud.
I yield the floor.
The VICE PRESIDENT. As a re-
minder to our guests in the Galleries,
expressions of approval or disapproval
are not permitted in the Senate Gal-
lery.
Under the previous order, all
postcloture time has expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the nomination of
Brett M. Kavanaugh, of Maryland, to
be an Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court of the United States?
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The VICE PRESIDENT. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
lery.)
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Ser-
geant at Arms will restore order in the
Senate.
The clerk will call the roll.
The VICE PRESIDENT. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator
is necessarily absent: the Senator from
Montana (Mr. DAINES).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Montana (Mr. DAINES)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
The result was announced—yeas 50,
nays 48, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 223 Ex.]
YEAS—50
Alexander
Barrasso
Blunt
Boozman
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Corker
Cornyn
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Flake
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hatch
Heller
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Kyl
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—48
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Donnelly
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Heitkamp
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
McCaskill
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Nelson
Peters
Reed
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Daines
The nomination was confirmed.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Ser-
geant at Arms will restore order in the
Gallery.
The clerk may resume.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Ser-
geant at Arms will restore order in the
Gallery.
The clerk will continue.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Ser-
geant at Arms will restore order in the
Gallery.
The clerk may continue.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, my
friend, the Senator from Montana, Sen-
ator DAINES who is walking his daugh-
ter down the aisle this afternoon, if he
were present and voting, he would have
voted aye. I have voted no. The pair
will not change the outcome of the
vote. I therefore withdraw my vote.
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Senator
has that right.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, how am
I recorded?
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Senator
is not recorded.
Mr. CARPER. Carper votes no.
The VICE PRESIDENT. As a re-
minder to our guests in the gallery, ex-
pressions of approval or disapproval are
not permitted in the Senate gallery.
On this vote, the ayes are 50, the
nays are 48. The nomination of Brett
M. Kavanaugh, of Maryland, to be an
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court
of the United States, is confirmed.
The majority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table, and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The VICE PRESIDENT. Without ob-
jection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Ser-
geant at Arms will restore order in the
Gallery.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
DESIGNATING THE U.S. COURT-
HOUSE AT 300 SOUTH FOURTH
STREET IN MINNEAPOLIS, MIN-
NESOTA, AS THE ‘‘DIANA E.
MURPHY UNITED STATES
COURTHOUSE’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand that the Senate has re-
ceived a message from the House to ac-
company S. 3021.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is correct.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask that the
Chair lay before the Senate the mes-
sage to accompany S. 3021.
The Presiding Officer laid before the
Senate the following message from the
House of Representatives:
Resolved, that the bill from Senate (S. 3021)
entitled ‘‘An act to designate the United
States courthouse located at 300 South
Fourth Street in Minneapolis, Minnesota, as
the ‘Diana E. Murphy United States Court-
house’.’’, do pass with the following amend-
ments.
MOTION TO CONCUR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to concur in the House amend-
ments.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion is pending.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.080 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6698 October 5, 2018
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to concur in the House amendments to
S. 3021, an act to designate the United States
courthouse located at 300 South Fourth
Street in Minneapolis, Minnesota, as the
‘‘Diana E. Murphy United States Court-
house’’.
Mitch McConnell, Chuck Grassley, John
Boozman, Roy Blunt, Deb Fischer,
Todd Young, James Lankford, Susan
M. Collins, Richard C. Shelby, Jon Kyl,
John Thune, Pat Roberts, Orrin G.
Hatch, Marco Rubio, John Barrasso,
Roger F. Wicker, John Hoeven.
MOTION TO CONCUR WITH AMENDMENT NO. 4048
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to concur in the House amend-
ment with a further amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] moves to concur in the House amend-
ment to S. 3021 with an amendment num-
bered 4048.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the reading be dispensed
with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
At the end add the following.
‘‘This Act shall take effect 1 day after the
date of enactment.’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask for the yeas
and nays on the amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The yeas and nays are ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 4049 TO AMENDMENT NO. 4048
Mr. MCCONNELL. I have a second-de-
gree amendment at the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the amendment.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] proposes an amendment numbered 4049
to amendment No. 4048.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the reading of the amend-
ment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 4049) is as fol-
lows:
Strike ‘‘1 day’’ and insert ‘‘2 days’’
MOTION TO REFER WITH AMENDMENT NO. 4050
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to refer the House message on S.
3021 to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works, with instructions to
report back forthwith.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] moves to refer the House message to
accompany S. 3021 to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works with instruc-
tions to report back forthwith with instruc-
tions, being amendment No. 4050.
The amendment is as follows:
At the end add the following.
‘‘This Act shall take effect 3 days after the
date of enactment.’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask for the yeas
and nays on my motion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 4051
Mr. MCCONNELL. I have an amend-
ment to the instructions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the amendment.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] proposes an amendment numbered 4051
to the instructions of the motion to refer.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the reading of the amend-
ment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
Strike ‘‘3 days’’ and insert ‘‘4 days’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask for the yeas
and nays on my amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 4052 TO AMENDMENT NO. 4051
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have a second-degree amendment at
the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] proposes an amendment numbered 4052
to Amendment No. 4051.
The amendment is as follows:
Strike ‘‘4’’ and insert ‘‘5’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask that the
reading of the amendment be dispensed
with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask that the
mandatory quorum call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 640.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Jeffrey Bossert
Clark, of Virginia, to be an Assistant
Attorney General.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jeffrey Bossert Clark, of Virginia,
to be an Assistant Attorney General.
Mitch McConnell, James Lankford, John
Hoeven, James M. Inhofe, Johnny Isak-
son, David Perdue, John Cornyn, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Mike Rounds,
Thom Tillis, Lamar Alexander, James
E. Risch, Jeff Flake, Richard Burr, Roy
Blunt, Deb Fischer.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 641.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Eric S.
Dreiband, of Maryland, to be an Assist-
ant Attorney General.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Eric S. Dreiband, of Maryland, to
be an Assistant Attorney General.
Mitch McConnell, James Lankford, John
Hoeven, James M. Inhofe, Johnny Isak-
son, David Perdue, John Cornyn, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Mike Rounds,
Thom Tillis, Lamar Alexander, James
E. Risch, Jeff Flake, Richard Burr, Roy
Blunt, Deb Fischer.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.087 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6699
October 5, 2018
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to executive session to consider Cal-
endar No. 866.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of James N. Stew-
art, of North Carolina, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense.
CLOTURE MOTION
SENATOR. Mr. President, I send a
cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of James N. Stewart, of North Caro-
lina, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense.
Mitch McConnell, James Lankford, John
Hoeven, James M. Inhofe, Johnny Isak-
son, David Perdue, John Cornyn, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Mike Rounds,
Thom Tillis, Lamar Alexander, James
E. Risch, Jeff Flake, Richard Burr, Roy
Blunt, Deb Fischer.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum calls for the cloture
motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, OCTOBER
9, 2018
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 3 p.m., Tuesday, October
9; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; finally, following leader
remarks, the Senate resume consider-
ation of the House message to accom-
pany S. 3021, and notwithstanding rule
XXII, the Senate vote on the motion to
invoke cloture on the motion to occur
at 5:30 p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order, fol-
lowing the remarks of Senator COONS.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Delaware.
NOMINATION OF BRETT KAVANAUGH
Mr. COONS. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I come to the floor to express my op-
position to the nomination of Judge
Kavanaugh to serve as Associate Jus-
tice of the U.S. Supreme Court.
I come with a profound regret. I come
today with profound regret that this
body has transformed from one that
historically confirms Supreme Court
Justices with broad and bipartisan sup-
port to one in which rules, norms, and
courtesies fall away to serve the objec-
tives of the majority and one in which
Justices are confirmed by the absolute
narrowest of margins.
I know I am not the only one to feel
this way. We can simply wish for the
bygone era of consensus to return, we
can give speeches about bipartisanship
with no hope of making progress, but
to wish for it without doing the work
of reaching across the aisle is empty
talk without action, and as one who
tries to inject some spirit of biparti-
sanship in what has been the most bit-
ter and most divisive and most par-
tisan fight I have seen in my 8 years
here, I wanted to reflect for a moment
before we close today on my views on
the nomination of Judge Kavanaugh,
the process that got us here and where
we go next.
First, in this process, in this nomina-
tion, I saw barrier after barrier placed
in front of consensus and bipartisan-
ship and the proper functioning of the
Senate Judiciary Committee on which
I serve. These barriers prevented us
from fully and effectively performing
the advice and consent function to
which we are called by the Constitu-
tion. We have to do better. There needs
to be a reckoning with all that went
wrong here.
I am sure that colleagues from the
other side of the aisle may well have
different views on exactly which steps
or developments led to the sharply di-
vided vote today and the heated and
sharply divided hearing and pro-
ceedings of last week, and I welcome
their input.
But I thought today I should, for me,
recount the course of this nomination.
It was fraught from the beginning be-
cause the Senate Judiciary Committee
majority used an unprecedented and
partisan process to rush this nomina-
tion while blocking access to millions
of pages of documents of Judge
Kavanaugh’s service in the White
House, potentially relevant to our de-
liberations.
For the first time since Watergate,
the nonpartisan National Archives was
cut out of the process for reviewing and
producing the nominee’s records, and
Judge Kavanaugh’s former deputy, who
made his career representing Repub-
lican and partisan causes, was in
charge of designating which documents
this committee and the American peo-
ple got to see.
Nonetheless, the committee pressed
forward, despite objections from the
minority to Judge Kavanaugh’s hear-
ing. During that hearing, I was, frank-
ly, disappointed. Judge Kavanaugh was
not fully forthcoming when discussing
his interpretation of the Constitution
and responding to timely and impor-
tant questions about his record.
I asked Judge Kavanaugh why he re-
peatedly criticized Morrison v. Olson, a
30-year-old precedent about a now-ex-
tinct statute but a 30-year-old Supreme
Court precedent holding that Congress
can create an independent counsel with
authority to investigate the President
and whom the President cannot just
fire on a whim.
I asked whether he still believes what
he said in 1998, that a President can
fire at will a prosecutor criminally in-
vestigating him. On these and other
critical questions of Presidential
power, Judge Kavanaugh would not re-
spond. He would not tell me whether he
believes all executive branch officials
must be removable at will by the Presi-
dent, according to his view of Execu-
tive power.
I asked whether critical rights like
rights of access to contraception, to
abortion, the right to marry the person
you love would be protected under the
test to evaluate substantive due proc-
ess that he has championed. Judge
Kavanaugh has repeatedly cited a test
for substantive due process that would
limit the protection of liberty and in-
terest to rights ‘‘deeply rooted in our
Nation’s history and tradition,’’ but he
would not confront the consequences of
applying this test going forward.
Judge Kavanaugh would also not con-
demn President Trump’s attacks on
the Federal Judiciary and the Presi-
dent’s suggestions that the Justice De-
partment should consider politics when
making prosecutorial decisions. I
asked Judge Kavanaugh about a com-
ment he made on a panel at George-
town when he said: ‘‘If the President
were the sole subject of a criminal in-
vestigation, I would say, no one should
be investigating that.’’ In fact, Judge
Kavanaugh testified he didn’t say that,
but I reviewed the record.
I followed up with a series of ques-
tions for the record to get additional
information I think the American peo-
ple should know and to give Judge
Kavanaugh a chance outside of our
brief exchanges in the confirmation
process to explain his suggestions that
perhaps I had misquoted him. Unfortu-
nately, I instead received pages of non-
answers.
When I asked Judge Kavanaugh spe-
cific questions about his criticism of
Morrison v. Olson, he simply referred
to his prior testimony and said he had
‘‘nothing further to add here.’’ He
would not explain how his proffered
test for substantive due process is con-
sistent with the Court’s landmark mar-
riage equality decision by Justice Ken-
nedy in Obergefell.
After the hearing was over, I learned
of Dr. Ford’s allegations that Judge
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.098 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6700 October 5, 2018
Kavanaugh had assaulted her in high
school. Dr. Ford courageously pre-
sented her account to the committee
and the country. She gave compelling
testimony about a terrifying sexual as-
sault she experienced at age 15. She re-
counted Mark Judge and Brett
Kavanaugh, stumbling drunk, pushing
into her bedroom, locking the door,
laughing, and turning up the music to
muffle her screams.
Dr. Ford testified with 100 percent
certainty that the person who as-
saulted her was the judge whose nomi-
nation we were considering, whom she
had known through acquaintances and
socialized with on many occasions.
Dr. Ford had borne the pain of this
attack alone for decades, but over
time, she told several people she trust-
ed. She told her now-husband in 2002,
she told therapists in 2012 and 2013, and
friends in 2013, 2016, 2017, and 2018. She
proffered their names in the subse-
quent FBI investigation, but they were
never questioned.
Importantly, Dr. Ford wasn’t the
only person to come forward during
this period. Her testimony gave cour-
age to countless others to confront
their own trauma and share their own
pain so that all of us can understand.
As I just shared in a bipartisan con-
versation with colleagues at the end of
this divisive vote, we have all had the
experience of friends and colleagues,
classmates and neighbors coming for-
ward with stories long concealed—
whether out of shame or fear; whether
out of a certainty they would not be
believed; whether out of pressures real,
recent, or long gone—and we all have
work to do together.
Inspired by these survivors, I will
never forget the experiences they have
shared, and I will not stop in efforts to
make certain this body, this Senate,
acts in ways that respect them and
their suffering and their experiences.
When Dr. Ford came forward to
speak to all of us and the American
people, I will remind you she had noth-
ing to gain and a lot to lose. She came
forward to testify about her assault,
and I am going to use her own words to
explain why, as she said to us: ‘‘I am
here today not because I want to be. I
am terrified. I am here because I be-
lieve it is my civic duty to tell you
what happened to me while Brett
Kavanaugh and I were in high school.’’
Civic duty to tell the truth.
What always struck me was how Dr.
Ford came forward to voice concerns
before Judge Kavanaugh was nomi-
nated by the President. She reached
out to her Congresswoman and anony-
mously to the Washington Post when
his name was on a short list, but he
had not yet been chosen.
Later, last Thursday, after Dr. Ford’s
testimony, Judge Kavanaugh came for-
ward to offer an aggressive, full-
throated, angry denunciation of her ac-
cusations. Even recognizing the under-
standable passion of one who believes
himself to be defending his honor
against unjust assault, I found his pre-
pared opening statement and com-
bative exchanges with my colleagues
deeply troubling. As a sitting circuit
court judge, he refused to answer fair
and relevant questions, instead throw-
ing them back in the faces of two of my
colleagues.
He was not candid with the com-
mittee about his own history of drink-
ing and aggressive behavior. To quote
an editorial recently published by
three college classmates:
Telling the truth, no matter how difficult,
is a moral obligation for our nation’s lead-
ers. No one should be able to lie their way
onto the Supreme Court. Honesty is the glue
that holds together a society of laws. Lies
are the solvent that dissolves those bonds.
They stated: ‘‘Brett lied under oath
while seeking to become a Supreme
Court Justice.’’
Most concerning of all to me, Judge
Kavanaugh broke his own stated rule
of staying three ZIP Codes away from
politics. In his sharply worded and par-
tisan exchange with Senators, he ac-
cused Democrats of ‘‘replacing advice
and consent with search and destroy,’’
of ‘‘Borking’’ him, of engaging in some
sort of revenge plot on behalf of the
Clintons, and of a calculated political
hit. He looked us in the eye and told
us: ‘‘What goes around comes around.’’
Retired Justice John Paul Stevens
explained he changed his mind about
Judge Kavanaugh’s fitness to serve be-
cause his hearing performance ‘‘dem-
onstrated a potential bias.’’
I share the concern of my colleague
Senator MURKOWSKI’s that after last
Thursday, the ‘‘appearance of impro-
priety has become unavoidable.’’
Following the intense and emotional
testimony of last Thursday, I am
grateful that we took a week pause so
that the FBI could conduct an inves-
tigation into credible allegations of
sexual assault, and I remain thankful
to my colleague Senator FLAKE for sup-
porting my call for an FBI investiga-
tion. It showed courage on his part.
Unfortunately, regrettably, the in-
vestigation that ensued had a scope so
narrow, so cursory, so incomplete that
it did not remove the cloud hanging
over Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination.
Dozens of witnesses who could have
corroborated Dr. Ford’s and Ms. Rami-
rez’s accounts were never contacted
and never questioned, despite their
contacts and names being handed to
FBI agents and despite the efforts of
many offices in the Senate to forward
their information.
I fear that with the confirmation of
Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme
Court today, we will look back on this
moment not only as a moment of rau-
cous turmoil for the Senate but as a
moment where the norms and tradi-
tions of blind justice, a justice blind to
partisanship, will have slipped away.
The Court is critical to the rule of
law in our country, and I am deeply
concerned that its legitimacy will be
harmed with the addition of an explic-
itly partisan Justice.
The Supreme Court plays a pivotal
role in defining the scope of the Presi-
dent’s power in determining whether
the President is above the law.
The Supreme Court impacts essential
rights enshrined in our Constitution—
the rights to privacy, intimacy, mar-
riage, contraception, abortion, the
freedom to worship as we choose, the
ability to participate in our democracy
as full and equal citizens, and the
promise of equal protection of the laws.
There are so many more I could list.
These issues are not academic, and
they are under assault. There are cases
proceeding to the Supreme Court now
that are relevant to so many of these
concerns.
There are cases challenging the con-
stitutionality of the ongoing special
counsel investigation now. A lawsuit
that is aimed at striking down the Af-
fordable Care Act is proceeding in
Texas now, and the Trump administra-
tion is refusing to defend protections
for people with preexisting conditions.
A challenge to restrictive regulations
for abortion clinics—regulations aimed
at putting clinics out of business—is
headed to the Supreme Court now.
Right now, there are also lawsuits
across the country in which LGBT
Americans are challenging discrimina-
tion they have faced in employment, in
schools, and in government service.
Our Supreme Court should be a bul-
wark against violations of law, depri-
vations of freedom, and abuses of
power. Yet we may now enter a per-
ilous time when the Court will, in fact,
be shifting far right and will end up
issuing decision after decision on clear-
ly partisan lines—significantly more
conservative than the majority of
Americans at a time when a President
elected by a minority of Americans
will have appointed the Justice with a
deciding vote, after his confirmation,
by the narrowest of margins. The Jus-
tice who has been confirmed today is
one who, in his conduct, will lead some
to fairly doubt his impartiality. He will
likely play a central role for decades in
charting a course for interpreting our
laws and rights and freedoms.
I hope and pray that I am wrong,
that my interpretation of his writings,
of his speeches, and of his opinions is
flawed, that the apology and retraction
he offered is genuine, in an opinion
that was published yesterday, about
his partisan screed in his confirmation
hearing, and that his behavior as a Jus-
tice will put to rest all of the concerns
I have raised and that he will be a
model of moderation and balance. Yet I
have profound doubts and grave con-
cerns about Judge Kavanaugh’s ability
to serve on the Supreme Court in an
evenhanded and nonpartisan way.
As I conclude, let me make a per-
sonal plea to those who are listening
and those who may watch: that we in
the Senate, in going forward, must ad-
dress the flaws and weaknesses of the
process that got us to today and that
we must do better. Simply retreating
to our partisan cloakrooms when we
are faced with our Nation’s challenges
will not solve them.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.082 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6701
October 5, 2018
If we do not work to repair this insti-
tution, there will be nothing left worth
saving. If this Senate does not work,
our Congress does not work. If our Con-
gress does not work, our Nation does
not work. If our Nation does not work,
we teach the world that democracy is
not the model to follow. If we, simply,
reflect the bitter partisanship that is
growing and festering across our Na-
tion—fueled by some here in Wash-
ington—we will fail.
We in the Senate must, instead, fol-
low the Founders’ vision for us and, in
fact, lead the country to common
ground, to consensus, and to a better
future. We should, therefore, work to-
gether to get back to a place where it
is possible for Supreme Court Justices
to be confirmed with broad and bipar-
tisan majorities, where it is possible to
legislate together on the issues com-
pelling to our time, and where it is pos-
sible to hear each other and to hear the
concerns of all of our people.
I hope my colleagues will hear my re-
marks today as an invitation to work
together to face this challenge. We owe
nothing less to the Supreme Court, to
our country, and to our people.
I yield the floor.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session for a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President I would
like to discuss my strong support for
the nomination of Judge Brett
Kavanaugh to be Associate Justice of
the Supreme Court of the United
States. In July I had the opportunity
to meet with Judge Kavanaugh in my
office, and it was clear to me that
President Trump had nominated an
outstanding jurist who was well-quali-
fied and ready to be our next Supreme
Court Justice.
From the very beginning, just min-
utes after his nomination, some of my
Democratic colleagues had already de-
cided to oppose Judge Kavanaugh at all
costs. They refused to meet with him,
spread a misinformation campaign
about his record, and claimed he was
outside of the mainstream. The indis-
putable fact is that Judge Kavanaugh
is the mainstream. His reasoning has
been adopted by the Supreme Court
more than a dozen times, and he is well
respected by people across the spec-
trum, from fellow judges to those who
have argued before him.
Judge Kavanaugh sat through more
than 30 hours of testimony before the
Senate Judiciary Committee and sub-
sequently responded to 1,287 questions
for the record, more than every pre-
vious Supreme Court nominee com-
bined. It was not until the 11th hour,
when Judge Kavanaugh was on the
verge of being confirmed, that unsub-
stantiated and uncorroborated claims
from 36 years ago were leaked to the
media in a last ditch effort to derail his
nomination. The F.B.I. conducted yet
another background investigation, its
seventh, and yet again, nothing was
discovered that would disqualify Judge
Kavanaugh from sitting on the Su-
preme Court.
Montanans overwhelmingly want a
Supreme Court Justice with impec-
cable academic credentials, someone
who does not legislate from the bench,
but upholds the rule of law and who
follows the Constitution. Judge
Kavanaugh is without a doubt that per-
son.
Yesterday, I was happy to cast my
vote in favor of bringing debate to an
end on this nomination. While I was
unavailable this afternoon for the vote
due to a longstanding family commit-
ment, I spoke with Judge Kavanaugh
and assured him that, if my vote was
needed for final passage, that I would
return as soon as possible. I would like
to thank my good friend and colleague,
Senator MURKOWSKI, for pairing votes
so that my absence would not change
the outcome.
However, I would be remiss not to
mention that we would not be in this
position had my friends across the aisle
not turned this entire process into a
political circus. They have done this
for no other purpose than to obstruct
and delay this nomination through the
election in hopes that they take back
control of this body and block all of
President Trump’s nominees. I fully
support Judge Kavanaugh’s confirma-
tion look forward to his many years of
service on the Supreme Court.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. BARRASSO:
S. 3559. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to terminate the credit for
new qualified plug-in electric drive motor ve-
hicles and to provide for a Federal Highway
user fee on alternative fuel vehicles; to the
Committee on Finance.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 4048. MR. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to the bill S. 3021, to provide for
improvements to the rivers and harbors of
the United States, to provide for the con-
servation and development of water and re-
lated resources, to provide for water pollu-
tion control activities, and for other pur-
poses.
SA 4049. MR. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 4048 proposed
by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill S. 3021, supra.
SA 4050. MR. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to the bill S. 3021 , supra.
SA 4051. MR. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 4050 proposed
by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill S. 3021, supra.
SA 4052. MR. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 4051 proposed
by Mr. MCCONNELL to the amendment SA
4050 proposed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill
S. 3021, supra.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 4048. Mr. McCONNELL proposed
an amendment to the bill S. 3021, to
provide for improvements to the rivers
and harbors of the United States, to
provide for the conservation and devel-
opment of water and related resources,
to provide for water pollution control
activities, and for other purposes; as
follows:
At the end add the following.
‘‘This Act shall take effect 1 day after the
date of enactment.’’
SA 4049. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed
an amendment to amendment SA 4048
proposed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill
S. 3021, to provide for improvements to
the rivers and harbors of the United
States, to provide for the conservation
and development of water and related
resources, to provide for water pollu-
tion control activities, and for other
purposes; as follows:
Strike ‘‘1 day’’ and insert ‘‘2 days’’
SA 4050. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed
an amendment to the bill S. 3021, to
provide for improvements to the rivers
and harbors of the United States, to
provide for the conservation and devel-
opment of water and related resources,
to provide for water pollution control
activities, and for other purposes; as
follows:
At the end add the following.
‘‘This Act shall take effect 3 days after the
day of enactment.’’
SA 4051. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed
an amendment to amendment SA 4050
proposed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill
S. 3021, to provide for improvements to
the rivers and harbors of the United
States, to provide for the conservation
and development of water and related
resources, to provide for water pollu-
tion control activities, and for other
purposes; as follows:
Strike ‘‘3 days’’ and insert ‘‘4 days’’
SA 4052. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed
an amendment to amendment SA 4051
proposed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the
amendment SA 4050 proposed by Mr.
MCCONNELL to the bill S. 3021, to pro-
vide for improvements to the rivers
and harbors of the United States, to
provide for the conservation and devel-
opment of water and related resources,
to provide for water pollution control
activities, and for other purposes; as
follows:
Strike ‘‘4’’ and insert ‘‘5’’
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Manpreet Teji,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.084 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6702 October 5, 2018
a judiciary staffer from my office, be
granted floor privileges for the remain-
der of the day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 9, 2018, AT 3 P.M.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 3 p.m. on Tuesday, Oc-
tober 9, 2018.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 4:43 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, October 9,
2018, at 3 p.m.
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate October 06, 2018:
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
BRETT M. KAVANAUGH, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN AS-
SOCIATE JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G06OC6.072 S05OCPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
D1116
Saturday, October 6, 2018
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate confirmed the nomination of Brett M. Kavanaugh, of Maryland,
to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Senate
Chamber Action
(Legislative Day of Friday, October 5, 2018)
Routine Proceedings, pages S6635–S6702
Measures Introduced: One bill was introduced, as
follows: S. 3559. Page S6701
House Messages:
America’s Water Infrastructure Act—Agree-
ment: Senate began consideration of the amend-
ments of the House of Representatives to S. 3021,
to designate the United States courthouse located at
300 South Fourth Street in Minneapolis, Minnesota,
as the ‘‘Diana E. Murphy United States Courthouse’’,
after agreeing to the motion to proceed to consider-
ation of the House message to accompany the bill,
and taking action on the following motions and
amendments proposed thereto: Pages S6697–98
Pending:
McConnell motion to concur in the amendments
of the House to the bill. Pages S6697–98
McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of
the House to the bill, with McConnell Amendment
No. 4048 (to the motion to concur in the amend-
ment of the House to the bill), to change the enact-
ment date. Page S6698
McConnell Amendment No. 4049 (to Amend-
ment No. 4048), of a perfecting nature. Page S6698
McConnell motion to refer the House message to
accompany the bill to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works, with instructions, McCon-
nell Amendment No. 4050, to change the enactment
date. Page S6698
McConnell Amendment No. 4051 (to the instruc-
tions (Amendment No. 4050) of the motion to
refer), of a perfecting nature. Page S6698
McConnell Amendment No. 4052 (to Amend-
ment No. 4051), of a perfecting nature. Page S6698
A motion was entered to close further debate on
McConnell motion to concur in the amendments of
the House to the bill, and, in accordance with the
provisions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of
the Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Saturday, October 6, 2018, a vote on
cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m., on Tuesday, October
9, 2018. Page S6699
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that Senate resume consideration of the
House message to accompany the bill at approxi-
mately 3:00 p.m., on Tuesday, October 9, 2018.
Page S6699
Clark Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Jeffrey Bossert Clark, of
Virginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General.
Page S6698
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the motion to concur in the House amendments
to S. 3021, America’s Water Infrastructure Act.
Page S6698
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6698
Dreiband Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Eric S. Dreiband,
of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General.
Page S6698
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Jeffrey Bossert Clark, of Vir-
ginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General.
Page S6698
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06OC8.PT2 D05OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1117
October 6, 2018
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6698
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6698
Stewart Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of James N. Stewart, of
North Carolina, to be an Assistant Secretary of De-
fense. Page S6699
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Eric S. Dreiband, of Maryland,
to be an Assistant Attorney General. Page S6699
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Pages S6698–99
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6699
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 50 yeas to 48 nays (Vote No. EX. 223), Brett
M. Kavanaugh, of Maryland, to be an Associate Jus-
tice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Pages S6635–97, S6702
Amendments Submitted: Page S6701
Privileges of the Floor: Pages S6701–02
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—223) Page S6697
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m., on
Friday, October 5, 2018, and adjourned at 4:43
p.m., on Saturday, October 6, 2018, until 3 p.m. on
Tuesday, October 9, 2018. (For Senate’s program,
see the remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S6699.
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet) No committee meetings were
held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 18 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 7031–7048, and 6 resolutions, H.
Res. 1115–1120, were introduced. Page H9419
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H9420–21
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he
appointed Representative Messer to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H9417
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Monsignor Stephen J. Rossetti,
Catholic University of America, Washington, DC.
Page H9417
Senate Messages: Messages received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appear on page H9417.
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no yea and nay
votes, and there were no recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9:30 a.m. and ad-
journed at 9:33 a.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 9, 2018
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
House Committees
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06OC8.PT2 D05OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1118 October 6, 2018
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Tuesday, October 9
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will resume consideration
of the House message to accompany S. 3021, America’s
Water Infrastructure Act, and vote on the motion to in-
voke cloture on McConnell motion to concur in the
amendments of the House to the bill, at 5:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
11:30 a.m., Tuesday, October 9
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 11:30 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Oct 07, 2018 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D06OC8.PT2 D05OCPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
