Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H5079
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JUNE 25, 2019 No. 107
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CUELLAR).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
June 25, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable HENRY
CUELLAR to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
SIGN ON TO IMPEACH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise because I love my coun-
try, and I rise now knowing that we are
some 69 days since the Mueller report,
which means that we are some 69 days
with the President being above the law
since the Mueller report was made pub-
lic.
I rise today with a special message.
This message has to do with leadership.
I rise today with this message, and I
would like to harken back, if I may, to
April 16 of 1963. I have my mnemonic
notes in front of me. April 16 of 1963 is
when Dr. King wrote his letter from
the Birmingham City Jail.
Dr. King did not wake up one morn-
ing and decide: I think I will go down
to Birmingham and get arrested, and I
will write a letter from the Bir-
mingham Jail. That was hardly the
case.
Dr. King was responding to a letter
from some of the leading citizens in
Birmingham. These were persons who
were cloaked with the robe of the cler-
gy. These are people who had moral po-
sitions. They took firm, hardcore posi-
tions when it came to morality.
These were the persons who would
set the standards, if you will, and
maintain the standards for morality.
There were eight of them. They decided
to write a letter to Dr. King, explain-
ing to him why he should not do what
he was about to do in Birmingham.
By the way, they were also aided and
abetted by some of the leading Negro
citizens. In fact, in their letter, they
mentioned that we should—meaning
them at that time—allow persons to
meet with our leading Negro citizens—
they didn’t say ‘‘leading’’ but ‘‘our Ne-
groes’’—and let’s try to work this out
with dialogue.
I marveled at how persons in posi-
tions of great leadership with great re-
sponsibility can be so wrong on some of
the crucial issues of our time.
Dear brothers and sisters—I say
‘‘brothers and sisters’’ because I be-
lieve that there is but one race, and
that is the human race. I think that all
persons are created equal. As Dr. King
put it, on God’s keyboard, we are cre-
ated equal, from a bass black to a tre-
ble white. I think that we are all cre-
ated equal, and I call you brothers and
sisters.
Dear brothers and sisters, this issue
concerning these babies at the border, I
just thank God that the media has fi-
nally discovered this issue and is tak-
ing it and bringing it to the forefront,
to the extent that they are. I thank C–
SPAN for the opportunity to be heard,
C–SPAN and all the outlets that allow
this opinion to be voiced.
I am pleased that this is being taken
up now by the major media because
what is happening to these babies at
the border is unconscionable.
Some months ago, after visiting the
border, I indicated that the ASPCA
would not allow animals to be housed
in the conditions that we see at the
border currently. This is a tragedy not
in the making but a tragedy that con-
tinues to exist because of inaction and
because of actions that have been
taken by the Chief Executive Officer of
the United States of America in an at-
tempt to deter people from coming to
this country.
How heartless can someone be to use
babies as a means of deterring people
from coming to the country?
I am here today because I love my
country. I believe that we cannot allow
this to continue. Some 69 days above
the law for this President, he knows
that we are not going to do anything.
This is why he behaves the way that he
does. He knows that he can do this
without guardrails because, back when
he fired Mr. Comey and it was called to
our attention that this was obstruc-
tion, we did nothing.
I thank God that Members are sign-
ing on now and understand the impor-
tance of it. The question is no longer:
Who is going to be among the first to
sign on to impeach? The question is:
Who will be the last to sign on to im-
peach?
I beg all who have not to please give
serious consideration to this notion
that you can be a part of this impeach-
ment because we cannot allow this in-
justice to continue.
Finally, I am working on a manu-
script, a book, if you will. The title of
it is ‘‘You Can’t Walk Back History.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.000 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5080 June 25, 2019
You can walk back your comments,
but you can’t walk back history.
The history associated with this time
will be: How did we vote when we were
given the opportunity to vote on im-
peachable bigotry emanating from the
policy of the Presidency?
There will be more to say and more
to come.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
RECOGNIZING PARTICIPANTS OF
THE 2019 PITTCHFEST
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the
participants of the 2019 PITTchFEST,
which was held in conjunction with
this year’s Showcase for Commerce in
Johnstown, Pennsylvania.
The event is designed to support the
next generation of great ideas in
Cambria County and the Allegheny re-
gion. The Shark Tank-style competi-
tion was created as a way for local en-
trepreneurs to present their innovative
ideas and creations to potential inves-
tors. Programs like these are essential
to attracting new businesses and a
skilled workforce to our region.
One of the competition’s categories is
specifically for students at the Univer-
sity of Pittsburgh at Johnstown. These
students are a part of the summer ac-
celerated program with PITTchFEST,
which is used as a launchpad for their
work.
This year’s top student entrepreneur-
ship teams included Smarchitecture,
led by Alex Schork. This team project
provides architects, designers, and art-
ists the ability to render digital im-
agery that can be instantly shared and
edited with clients in real time.
Skill Spirit was led by Ben Wargo.
This team developed an incremental
learning app that provides incentives
and rewards for learning new lan-
guages.
Supernal Siesta was led by Laura
Johnson. Laura’s team focused on help-
ing women manage hot flashes and the
effects of menopause by creating a
fashionably created mattress with the
technology to cool and provide for a
full night’s sleep.
For the third year, PITTchFEST also
included the social entrepreneurship
category, which highlights incredible
efforts and ideas for building vibrant
communities. The top teams in this
category included the Conemaugh Val-
ley Conservancy team, which is devel-
oping plans to expand the Path of the
Flood Trail, which would be the first
safe and easily followed bicycle route
from downtown Johnstown to the his-
toric Little Conemaugh River gorge.
The Central Park Square/Gallery on
Gazebo team aims to promote the arts
in downtown Johnstown.
The Friends of the Inclined Plane
Trails team is planning the Inclined
Plane Riverside Park, which will in-
clude zip lines and a downhill moun-
tain-biking course.
The three finalists in each category
received a cash award that supports
their innovations. The judges for
PITTchFEST represented various as-
pects of the community, including so-
cial agencies, private industries, advo-
cacy groups, and higher education.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to
thank the sponsors of PITTchFEST
who made the event possible, including
Ben Franklin Technology Partners,
Cambria Regional Chamber, Commu-
nity Foundation for the Alleghenies,
Croyle-Nielsen Therapeutic Associates,
Enterprise Venture Capital Corpora-
tion of PA, Entrepreneurial Alchemy,
JARI, JWF Industries, and the Univer-
sity of Pittsburgh at Johnstown.
PITTchFEST was a tremendous suc-
cess, as it showcased the community
spirit and the innovative minds of the
greater Johnstown region.
As their motto proclaims, they are:
‘‘Growing Great Ideas Right in Our
Backyard.’’
f
CONGRATULATING SUSAN ACKER-
MAN, WILLIAM MCGINNIS, AND
JEREMY JACKSON ON ELECTION
TO NATIONAL ACADEMY OF
SCIENCES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. PETERS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate three of my con-
stituents—Susan Ackerman and Wil-
liam McGinnis of the University of
California, San Diego, and Jeremy
Jackson of Scripps Institution of
Oceanography—for their election to
the National Academy of Sciences.
At UCSD, Susan works to enrich the
field of neurology through her dedica-
tion to in-depth research of molecular
pathways. William is a leader in cell
and developmental biology, studying
the genetic systems that control devel-
opment and regeneration of tissues in
animals.
Susan joins a record number of
women who make up 40 percent of the
newly elected class, the most ever
elected in any one year, to date. This is
another milestone for representation of
women in science.
Jeremy is a renown ecologist,
paleobiologist, and conservationist at
the Scripps Institute of Oceanography,
where he researches human impacts on
the environment and the evolution of
coral reefs.
San Diego’s research institutes are
vital to scientific discoveries, and each
member helps fuel San Diego’s innova-
tion economy through their work.
Susan, William, and Jeremy join 111
other National Academy of Sciences
members from San Diego’s research in-
stitutes.
This year, the National Academy of
Sciences celebrates 156 years of fur-
thering science in America. The Acad-
emy has helped inform engineering and
health policy, and Susan, William, and
Jeremy will add the expertise of San
Diego’s scientific community as the
Academy fulfills its mission.
Since Congress chartered the Acad-
emy in 1863, it has been at the forefront
of what makes America the most inno-
vative place in the world.
I thank Susan Ackerman, William
McGinnis, and Jeremy Jackson for rep-
resenting San Diego in the Academy
and for their fine work.
COMMENDING JUDY KI ON HER COMMUNITY
LEADERSHIP
Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Judy Ki, a Chinese
American in my district who has been
a force for change in San Diego.
Judy is originally from Hong Kong
and taught middle school science in the
San Diego Unified School District for
30 years. She has a bachelor’s degree in
psychology, a master’s of science in
computer technology, and five teach-
ing credentials.
During her teaching career, she re-
ceived a certificate from then-Vice
President Al Gore, acknowledging her
for her work in environmental edu-
cation. Judy was also recognized as a
distinguished educator by Who’s Who
Among America’s Teachers in both 2002
and 2003, thanks to nominations from
her students.
Since retiring from teaching, she has
been very involved in the Poway com-
munity and continues to serve as a vol-
unteer and mentor, especially within
the Asian and Pacific Islander commu-
nity.
I thank Judy for her dedicated years
as an educator and for her commend-
able leadership in providing a voice for
the San Diego AAPI community.
CONGRATULATING SCRIPPS SPELLING BEE
PARTICIPANT ELLIOTT HUSSEMAN
Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Elliott Husseman,
winner of the 50th annual San Diego
Union-Tribune Countywide Spelling
Bee and a participant in the 92nd
Scripps National Spelling Bee.
As an active student at Inspire Char-
ter Schools, Elliott is an inspiration to
his peers and the Poway community.
Inspire Charter Schools teach students
to be independent, critical thinkers
and responsible San Diego citizens.
Elliott upheld the pillars of Inspire
admirably, showing integrity and con-
fidence under pressure. He dem-
onstrated tenacity and levelheadedness
beyond his years while competing in a
record-breaking field of 562 spelling bee
contestants.
Since 1925, the Scripps National
Spelling Bee has cultivated a passion
for learning among young Americans,
reaching 11 million students each year.
It offers a platform for students like
Elliott to engage with like-minded stu-
dents and represent their communities
in an encouraging environment that
fosters sportsmanship and respect.
b 1015
The valuable experience of competing
allows these young students to build
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.002 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5081
June 25, 2019
confidence and showcase their aca-
demic abilities, skills that are key to
their future success.
Elliot’s achievements in the Scripps
National Spelling Bee represent the fu-
ture of San Diego and the 52nd Dis-
trict. Please join me in congratulating
Elliot here at home and on the na-
tional stage.
f
‘‘NOW YOU ARE TWO’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. NORMAN) for 5
minutes.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to enter into the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD a special poem that was writ-
ten by Harold Renwick, Jr. to his
daughter, Penny, on her second birth-
day.
Harold Renwick never delivered the
poem as he was killed in action during
the Vietnam war. The poem was dis-
covered by Captain Bennet and mailed
by a friend of Harold Renwick’s, Major
Charles King. It was mailed to Harold
Renwick’s wife, Penny’s mother, on
March 22, 1968.
The poem is titled: ‘‘Now You Are
Two.’’
Rejoice and be happy this fine day.
Have fun in all the games you play.
Run, sing, be happy and gay,
For you are 2, my daughter, today.
Of all the wonderful days of the year,
Today especially I wish I could be near
To hold you, to hug you and share your
world
Of being a year older and being a girl.
But alas, my child, with you I cannot be
Because there is a need to keep the world
free.
A need that was created many years ago,
When a people’s thirst for freedom began to
grow.
You do not know these people; they are
strangers to us.
And you may ask, ‘‘Daddy, why all the fuss
For a people who live in a land far away?
Daddy, why can’t you be with me on my
birthday?’’
As you grow older, my child, you will learn
That in men’s hearts a spark will burn.
A spark so intense that it cannot be denied,
So strong it is that men have died
Fighting for what they believe is true;
Fighting for freedom the way all men do.
We have watched enough television to know
That in this world bad people will go
And try to hurt and harm the good guys.
Cheat, steal, and tell all kind of lies,
These are some of the things these bad guys
do.
This is the reason that your daddy flew
Across the oceans to a land far away
To help other daddies with their children to
play,
To help these daddies see their struggle
through
So they can say, ‘‘Happy birthday, my
daughter, now you are 2.’’
Don’t weep, my child, for this birthday I’ll
miss.
Go to your mommy and she’ll give you a kiss
From me, to remind you I’ve not forgot.
You see, my child, I do love you a lot.
So much, in fact, that to you I do pledge
That a world of freedom shall be your herit-
age.
Sleep, my child, the night is here.
Sleep, my child, and wake without fear.
Grow, my child, be happy and free,
For these are the dreams I have for thee.
This poem was written in 1968, over
51 years ago, and I submit to you that
now is the time for America to heed
these words of this poem written by a
father who voluntarily made the ulti-
mate sacrifice in defense of freedom.
f
END HUNGER NOW
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN) for 5
minutes.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, 50
years have passed since the historic
Stonewall riots in New York City
which brought us one step closer to full
equality for all Americans. But as we
wrap up Pride Month and celebrate all
we have accomplished over the last five
decades, I want to take this time to
raise the issue of hunger in the LGBTQ
community.
A study by the Williams Institute at
UCLA found that more than one in four
LGBTQ adults did not have enough
money to buy food for themselves or
their families in the past year. That is
an alarming number. It is more than
double the national food insecurity
rate.
The average SNAP benefit only pro-
vides about $1.40 per person per meal.
That only covers a fraction of an indi-
vidual’s meals. While many households
go to food pantries to fill the SNAP
gap, some of these food banks and pan-
tries are affiliated with groups that
may not accept people for who they
are. That is because discrimination due
to sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity is everywhere. In more than half of
the country, there are no explicit
Statewide laws that protect people
from discrimination based on sexual
orientation or gender identity in em-
ployment, housing, and public accom-
modations.
This type of discrimination has real
consequences. LGBTQ Americans are
much more likely to end up homeless,
particularly as kids and teens, and are
more likely to live in a food desert
where they have trouble purchasing
nutritious food nearby.
As if this weren’t bad enough, these
numbers are even more devastating
across racial demographics. For exam-
ple, in the LGBTQ community, a stag-
gering 42 percent of African Americans,
33 percent of Hispanics, and 32 percent
of Native Americans reported being
food insecure. That is unconscionable,
and it is unacceptable.
Mr. Speaker, this is not some ab-
stract problem. These are our friends,
these are our family members, our
neighbors, our classmates, and our co-
workers. We should be uplifting and
supporting them, but the numbers
don’t lie. Our country is facing a full-
blown hunger crisis and the LGBTQ
community—and, in particular, com-
munities of color within of it—are
bearing the brunt of that crisis. We
cannot allow their stories to be erased
or muted.
We must work together to address
interconnected issues like housing and
hunger by gathering more data on how
to specifically respond to these prob-
lems. We must increase outreach to
these communities so that everyone
who qualifies for hunger assistance
programs can access benefits.
Sadly, instead of working to solve
this problem, this President and his ad-
ministration have tried to roll back
the clock on equality. Whether it is
blocking questions related to sexual
orientation or pushing half-baked rule
changes to enact a definition of gender,
which would essentially erase people
from our official population counts,
they are working overtime to threaten
the rights of Americans.
But we are working overtime to stop
them. Last month the House passed the
Equality Act which aims to extend
civil rights protections to all Ameri-
cans, regardless of gender identity and
sexual orientation. Passing this bill
into law would play a key role in ad-
dressing hunger in the LGBTQ commu-
nity. I am proud that the House has
taken action, and I urge the Senate to
do the same.
This is Pride Month. As we celebrate
the progress that our country has
made, let us also remember all of the
work we have to do to end hunger now.
f
THE TIMELINE OF JACIFUSEN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Iowa (Mr. KING) for 5 minutes.
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I ap-
preciate being recognized to address
you here on the floor of the United
States House of Representatives.
I rise today to honor Jaci Hermstad.
She has given me so much inspiration.
I want to start, though, with the
early, sad part of this story. This is a
sad story with a happy part in the mid-
dle of it right now, Mr. Speaker.
Jaci’s identical twin sister, Alex, was
diagnosed with a very severe and ag-
gressive form of ALS. That took place
in 2005. Then, by 2010 and 2011, my staff
and, especially, Sandy Hanlon in our
Sioux City office, were working with
the Hermstads to do those things we
could do, in a limited fashion, admit-
tedly.
On St. Valentine’s Day of 2011, sadly,
Jaci’s identical twin sister, Alex,
passed away at age 17. Now, that is 8
years ago. About 2015 or so, Jaci and
her mother, Lori, came to my office to
talk with me about ALS, this dreaded
Lou Gehrig’s disease, that always ends
up fatal. It always ends up in a sad,
tragic ending. They had experienced
that with Jaci’s identical twin sister.
Even more sadly, there was news that
symptoms showed up in Jaci late last
fall, around the holiday time. By
Christmas she couldn’t get up the
stairs any longer, and again, on St.
Valentine’s Day of this year, Jaci was
diagnosed with the aggressive form of
ALS that her identical twin sister had
passed away from.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.005 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5082 June 25, 2019
Now, they had donated some of her
sister’s tissue to science, and two sig-
nificant companies, Columbia Univer-
sity, and Dr. Neil Shneider began doing
DNA work on that preparing a treat-
ment for Jaci. This treatment wasn’t
available for Jaci soon enough in her
view, her family’s view, or in my view.
The FDA had to work through their
regulations. As we worked through
that, it looked like Jaci couldn’t get
this potentially miraculous treatment
before perhaps September or October.
At the rate of the digression of her con-
dition, it didn’t look like she was going
to be with us long enough to receive
the treatment.
Some of us went to work to step up
and help Jaci. I got involved on April
13 of this year when my wonderful dis-
trict staff person, Andrea Easter, who
had been working with the family all
along, brought me up and we did a
fundraiser there at the Spencer AG
Center on April 13, a Saturday.
It was a cold and chilly day when we
arrived there. There were pickups
parked on either side of the road to the
Spencer AG Center. It looked like we
were going to a farm sale there were so
many vehicles there.
They had only expected maybe 100
people, and the Clay County Cattlemen
were there to flip maybe 100 burgers
and put out a basket for people to put
a check in. They thought they could
raise $3,000 to $5,000 just as a token, as
a way to help.
The story about that day is, it turned
out that there were over 1,000 people
who came. And they raised in the end,
the last report I got, was over $200,000.
I sat with Jaci that day and talked
about her dreams to build a riding
arena and train horses for therapy for
others and to be able to help people.
She is a cowgirl, Mr. Speaker. I com-
mitted that I will come up and grade
that arena on the house, and I will be
on the machine to do it. I look forward
to that day.
But we had more work to do. So that
story that day got us all energized. We
kept her in our prayers every day. By
May 2 we had a meeting with Dr.
Woodcock and the FDA.
We moved along even further. By
May 20 I introduced a private bill. I
tried to convince my Senators to do
the same. They thought there would be
an objection to a UC in the Senate.
I brought this to Speaker PELOSI. She
was terrific to work with. We had sev-
eral meetings all together, with STENY
HOYER and with her staff. Before that
bill could come to the floor for a unani-
mous consent request, the FDA opened
the door and Jaci went wheels up Janu-
ary 5 to go to Columbia.
She received her first treatment on
June 11, and today, starting 5 minutes
from now, Mr. Speaker, she will receive
her second treatment. There has been
no noticeable digression in her condi-
tion. I am hopeful and prayerful that it
will improve. We have a chance here at
a miracle.
So many people worked so well to-
gether to get this done, including the
press people around the Spencer, Iowa,
area. I want to especially mention
Stella ‘‘With the Good Heart’’
Daskalakis. I always call her Stella
‘‘With the Good Heart.’’ She has done
so much, along with KICD Radio,
KTIV, KUOO, and KSFY in Sioux Falls.
Mr. Speaker, I am so grateful for ev-
eryone who has formed a link in this
chain of miracles. We are on our way to
an extraordinary miracle. We will keep
Jaci in our prayers this day as she re-
ceives her second treatment for ALS.
f
PEACE CORPS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. GARAMENDI) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker,
today I am proud to introduce the
Peace Corps Reauthorization Act of
2019.
I want to thank my returned Peace
Corps volunteers; JOE KENNEDY and
DONNA SHALALA, the co-chairs of the
Peace Corps Caucus; as well as Mr.
GRAVES, Mr. SIRES, Mrs. RADEWAGEN,
and Ms. SHALALA for their support as
original cosponsors.
Like successive generations of young
Americans, my wife, Patti, and I an-
swered President John F. Kennedy’s
call and served in the Peace Corps in
Ethiopia from 1966 to 1968. This
foundational experience inspired our
lifetime of service that continued into
State government in California, the
Clinton administration, and now the
United States Congress.
Since the establishment of the Peace
Corps in 1961, more than 230,000 Ameri-
cans have volunteered and have served
in 141 countries around the world.
When the Africans fought for their
independence, the Peace Corps volun-
teers came, and they were there to as-
sist in the transition in countries
throughout that continent. They were
there as teachers, community develop-
ment, and agriculture, and so that tra-
dition carried on in countries all
around the world. Today there are
some 8,000 Peace Corps volunteers in 65
countries.
Now more than ever, Congress should
and must support the Peace Corps mis-
sion and realize President Kennedy’s
vision of generations of young Ameri-
cans, ready to serve their Nation and
make the world a better place and re-
turn home to America and continue to
educate all Americans about what is
going on around the world.
Our Peace Corps Reauthorization Act
of 2019 would do just this by providing
additional Federal resources to better
support current, returning, and former
Peace Corps volunteers by doing the
following: First, since 2002 the Peace
Corps has not been reauthorized. So we
would pick up that and make the Peace
Corps reauthorization good for the next
5 years. We would authorize $450 mil-
lion per fiscal year for the Peace Corps,
an increase over the flat $410 million
that has been provided in the current
year.
We would also direct the Peace Corps
to establish new volunteer opportuni-
ties that promote internet adoption
and development in countries and en-
gage tech savvy American volunteers.
We would increase the monthly al-
lowance for Peace Corps volunteers and
leaders to $417 per month of service
completed to reflect the increase in the
cost of living and provide $10,000 for the
2-year full term of service.
We would reform the Peace Corps Na-
tional Advisory Council that has been
in abeyance since 1980 by providing
that donated funds from a qualified
nonprofit organization would cover all
administrative costs for the advisory
council with no cost to the taxpayers.
We would include Respect for Peace
Corps Volunteers Act, H.R. 1411, spon-
sored by Congressman SIRES of New
Jersey since 2013, allowing use of the
Peace Corps logo in headstones and
other funeral materials, in recognition
of the meaning the deceased’s Peace
Corps service had for their lives.
We would codify President Kennedy’s
1963 executive order affording returned
Peace Corps volunteers a 12-month hir-
ing preference for most Federal job
openings and also deal with the shut-
downs that occasionally occur.
b 1030
We would require the Peace Corps
and the U.S. State Department Bureau
of Diplomatic Security to routinely up-
date existing memorandums of agree-
ment for Peace Corps volunteer secu-
rity and consular protection in foreign
countries.
We would clarify that American
Samoans and other U.S. nationals have
an opportunity to serve in the Peace
Corps as volunteers as well as in lead-
ership positions.
We would also increase the workers’
compensation rate for Peace Corps vol-
unteers.
This bipartisan bill builds upon the
success of the Sam Farr and Nick Cas-
tle Peace Corps Reform Act of 2018,
public law 115–256, sponsored by former
Congressman Ted Poe of Texas.
Our bill also builds upon legislation
sponsored by my California colleague
Sam Farr, who served in the Peace
Corps from 1964 to 1966.
As co-chairman of the Peace Corps
Caucus, I am proud to continue the
work in support of the Peace Corps
mission, its volunteers, and the indel-
ible impact of their service.
I ask all Members of Congress to co-
sponsor this legislation and support it.
It is important, and I look forward to
working with the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee, Chairman ENGEL, and Ranking
Member MCCAUL to advance the Peace
Corps Reauthorization Act.
f
RECOGNIZING RABBI DR. STEVEN
MOSS OF B’NAI ISRAEL REFORM
TEMPLE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ZELDIN) for 5 minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.006 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5083
June 25, 2019
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, it is an
honor to rise today recognizing Rabbi
Dr. Steven Moss of B’nai Israel Reform
Temple, who is retiring after serving
his community for over 47 years.
Rabbi Moss became the first ordained
rabbi for B’nai Israel in June of 1974
and has honorably served his commu-
nity ever since.
Rabbi Moss’ service to his commu-
nity and his accomplishments are
nothing less than extraordinary. He
has been the chair of the Suffolk Coun-
ty Human Rights Commission since
1992 and has served as the chaplain to
the Suffolk County Police Department,
with the rank of deputy chief of chap-
lains, since 1986.
Additionally, Rabbi Moss is the co-
chair of the Suffolk County Anti-Bias
Task Force; chair of the Islip Town
Anti-Bias Task Force in the battle
against anti-Semitism and other bias
crimes; director and founder of STOP/
BIAS, an educational program for peo-
ple who have committed hate and bias
crimes; former president of the Suffolk
County Board of Rabbis; board member
on the New York Board of Rabbis and
the Center for the Holocaust, Diversity
and Human Understanding at the Sel-
den campus of Suffolk Community Col-
lege; founder of the Jewish Hospital
Referral Service; pastoral care coordi-
nator of the Suffolk Partners in Dig-
nity; hospital chaplain at Good Samar-
itan Hospital, Brookhaven Memorial
Hospital, and Southside Hospital; and
is the longest sitting member of the
Islip Town Board of Ethics.
I have known Rabbi Moss since I was
a little kid. Nearly 27 years ago, he was
the rabbi who presided over the bar
mitzvah service for me and, this No-
vember, will be the rabbi for my daugh-
ter’s b’not mitzvah. He has left a last-
ing impact on so many lives, including
my own.
One of the things I love the most
about Rabbi Moss is how he visits peo-
ple in hospitals, nursing homes, and
elsewhere all the time, every day. If
you think you have lost touch with
Rabbi Moss and it has been 20 years
since you have last spoken to him,
even if you weren’t really that close
with him back in the day, if he finds
out that you are at a local hospital, he
will come and visit you and pray for
you.
His family services during the High
Holy Days are amazing for the kids. He
involves everyone. It is not easy to get
every single kid in a temple totally en-
gaged, all in, without much effort, but
Rabbi Moss has charisma that is sec-
ond to none.
Most importantly, he is simply a
very kind, warm, and decent human
being who loves everyone.
Rabbi Moss is now en route to Po-
land, where he will bike 60 miles from
the gates of Auschwitz to the Jewish
Community Center in Krakow, which is
also known as the ‘‘Ride for the Liv-
ing,’’ in honor of the millions of people
who were murdered during the Holo-
caust.
Rabbi Moss and about 300 other
bikers will be biking the entire 60
miles in one day to raise money for the
Jewish Community Center in Krakow,
which supports the growing Jewish
population there and in the sur-
rounding areas.
When asked about his upcoming ex-
perience, Rabbi Moss stated he believes
the experience will be overwhelming
but that he is excited to witness the
growth of the Jewish diaspora.
On Sunday, B’Nai Israel held a going-
away party for Rabbi Moss, where they
gifted him with a bronze plaque signi-
fying that the sanctuary within the
synagogue will be named after him.
Rabbi Moss deserves nothing less after
having served over 47 years at the syn-
agogue.
He has been an incredible role model
and mentor to both my family and me,
and he has continued to be a remark-
able role model for thousands of others.
I look to him as a community leader,
an inspiration, and a teacher, one with
an amazing ability to connect with
anyone. I would like to thank Rabbi
Moss for all he has done for our com-
munity, and I wish him nothing but the
best in his retirement.
f
HUMANITARIAN STANDARDS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. RUIZ) for 5 minutes.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, today the
House will vote on legislation to pro-
vide our immigration agencies the hu-
manitarian resources they need for
children, women, and families. How-
ever, that is not enough when this ad-
ministration has argued in court that
children in CBP custody do not need
soap, toothbrushes, or blankets as
basic necessities for hygiene.
This bill funds items and resources
for a dysfunctional system that treats
children and families inhumanely. It
does not create humanitarian stand-
ards that will change behavior, and it
will not meet the humanitarian needs
of children and families.
We need to pass my legislation, the
Humanitarian Standards for Individ-
uals in CBP Custody Act, a comprehen-
sive, public health approach to address
the basic humanitarian needs of chil-
dren and families under CBP’s custody
and responsibility.
Why? Why are these humanitarian
standards needed? Because, when I vis-
ited the border, I saw open toilets and
crowded cells without privacy. I saw
one latrine for 200 individuals. I saw
babies who were dirty and didn’t have
diapers and didn’t have free access to
water and formula. Because six chil-
dren have now died while in the cus-
tody and responsibility of CBP, under
their supposed TEDS standards.
Why? Because my bill will define
what a health screening is. It will say
that a health screening is an interview,
a questionnaire, and it will have vital
signs, an actual physical examination,
and consultation with an emergency
care provider. The appropriations bill
doesn’t.
My bill will say that high-priority in-
dividuals, upon detention, within 3
hours, must have a health screening.
The appropriations bill doesn’t.
My bill says that there needs to be
emergency care backup for every indi-
vidual who has a healthcare screening.
The appropriations bill doesn’t.
In terms of water, my bill will say
that every adult will, at least, have
free access to 1 gallon of water. The ap-
propriations bill doesn’t give those
metrics.
It says that there should be one
closed, private, functioning toilet per
12 men or 8 women. The appropriations
bill doesn’t.
It says that individuals should have
the ability to bathe once a day. The ap-
propriations bill does not.
In terms of shelter, an individual
should have 2 meters squared of space.
Right now, they are piled on top of
each other. The appropriations bill will
not change that practice.
It says that temperatures should be
kept within a humane range. Cur-
rently, they are keeping them in very,
very cold rooms, interrupting their
sleep, which decreases their immune
system and makes them prone to more
illnesses and mental health disorders.
The appropriations bill does not re-
quire them to allow the children to
sleep 8 hours.
The appropriations bill does not say
that they need to keep temperatures in
a humane range.
In terms of food, my bill says that an
adult should have, at least, a minimum
of 2,000 calories a day. The appropria-
tions bill doesn’t. We are just funding a
lot of food, and we already know that
children are given frozen burritos.
My bill will say that a pregnant
woman or a child under 12 years old or
the elderly should have age-appro-
priate food and age-appropriate cal-
ories per day. This appropriations bill
does not enforce those behavioral
changes.
So, today’s vote is a desperate bill for
a desperate situation. But, don’t be
fooled that this bill is going to meet
the humanitarian needs of women and
children at the border. Don’t be fooled
into thinking that we should pat our-
selves on the back and walk away
thinking that this problem is over or
that children and families will be
treated humanely—not when an admin-
istration is arguing that toothbrushes
and soap are not needed for basic hy-
giene for children.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a vote on my bill,
and I urge my fellow Representatives
to support my bill, the Humanitarian
Standards for Individuals in CBP Cus-
tody Act, to bring humanity back to
our treatment of women, children, and
families seeking asylum and prevent
the needless loss of life.
f
CONGRATULATING KEITH AND
EMMA SWARTZ
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.009 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5084 June 25, 2019
Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER) for 5 min-
utes.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, it is
my distinct pleasure and personal
blessing to be able to congratulate and
thank my friends Keith and Emma
Swartz for serving the Lord for over 40
years.
Pastor Keith Swartz has been a lead-
er in my community, making a dif-
ference in the lives of countless fami-
lies, achieving 13 years as principal and
coach at the Harrisonville Christian
School, as an elder for over 20 years,
and 26 years as associate pastor at my
church, the Harrisonville Community
Church.
Emma Swartz inspired and equipped
students from kindergarten to sixth
grade for 19 years at Harrisonville
Christian School, as both principal and
teacher. She used her gift of teaching
beyond the classroom as a respected
Sunday school teacher and a leader of
adult Bible studies.
Together, they have ministered to
countless individuals, visiting them in
the hospital and being by their side
during the final days of an illness, as
well as supporting the families after-
wards.
The foundation of their service began
at home, where they raised four beau-
tiful children to love God and to love
others; and, now, this legacy of faith
and service is being lived out in the
lives of their 10 grandchildren.
Keith and Emma are special people
individually, but, together, they make
a remarkable team that I have been
blessed to know over the years, and our
church has been blessed by their serv-
ice.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Keith
and Emma on their retirement. I hope
they enjoy the days which they have
worked so hard to earn, and I wish
them continued health and happiness
in this new phase of life and pray God’s
richest blessings on them.
CONGRATULATING RICH HILL HIGH SCHOOL BOYS
TRACK AND FIELD TEAM
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to congratulate the Rich
Hill High School boys track and field
team for winning the Class 1 State
championship.
As a former track runner and track
and field coach, I am thrilled to have a
school in my district take home the
State championship. This truly is a
feat due in no small part to the hard
work and talent of the team and its
leadership.
A Class 1 State record was also bro-
ken during the State competition. Rich
Hill, sophomore, Clifton Bridgewater,
threw 177 feet to win the boys javelin
competition, breaking the previous
record of 169 feet set last season.
The outstanding performances by
these Tigers mark a great milestone
for Rich Hill High School, and I would
like to ask all Missourians to join me
in congratulating these Tiger team-
mates on this momentous achieve-
ment.
HONORING COLORADO REGENT
EMERITUS TILMAN ‘‘TILLIE’’
BISHOP
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Colorado (Mr. NEGUSE) for 5 minutes.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor a great Colorado states-
man and a devoted community mem-
ber, University of Colorado Regent
Emeritus Tilman ‘‘Tillie’’ Bishop, who
passed away on June 16.
Born and raised in Colorado, Tillie
dedicated his long and influential life
to service for the people of our great
State.
He held a wide variety of elected of-
fices, including 28 years in the Colo-
rado General Assembly, making him
the longest serving State senator from
Colorado’s western slope, as well as 6
years on the University of Colorado
Board of Regents.
Tillie’s passion for education and his
commitment to promoting a school
system that diligently serves each and
every student was tangible and, no
doubt, came from the over 30 years he
worked as a public school teacher and
college administrator.
It was my honor to serve on the
board of regents with Regent Bishop.
He always found ways to work across
the aisle to ensure that the students at
the University of Colorado were given a
top-tier education that would prepare
them for a successful future.
And I will never forget Tillie’s deter-
mination and his devotion to those he
served. He was a great statesman, and
I know that many in Colorado, myself
included, will miss him.
I send my deepest condolences to Re-
gent Bishop’s wife, Pat, and to all of
his family, and we thank him for his
incredible service.
f
b 1045
PRESCRIPTION FOR LIFE
PROGRAM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize Arkansas At-
torney General Leslie Rutledge and her
program, Prescription for Life.
Arkansas has the second-highest
opioid prescription rate in this coun-
try. Prescription for Life is a drug
abuse prevention program used in high
schools across Arkansas. This program
aims to encourage students to avoid
taking prescription drugs in an illicit
manner.
The course is interactive and de-
signed to educate young people
through animated videos about the
dangers of prescription drugs. This
course also teaches students how to
recognize the symptoms of a drug over-
dose and abuse and how to help people
who may be suffering from an overdose.
Prescription for Life is provided at
no cost to Arkansas schools.
Thank you to Attorney General Les-
lie Rutledge, and to all the contribu-
tors for this important effort.
VASCUGENIX BUSINESS PLAN
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate Vascugenix,
a medical device company representing
the University of Arkansas at Little
Rock, for winning the undergraduate
division of the 2019 Delta Plastics Ar-
kansas Governor’s Cup Collegiate Busi-
ness Plan Competition.
Vascugenix is a Little Rock startup
that is run by students at the Univer-
sity of Arkansas at Little Rock and led
by Dr. Dwight Chrisman, a cardiologist
with Arkansas Cardiology and Baptist
Health in Little Rock.
Dr. Chrisman invented Vascugenix’s
flagship product, the Speed-Torque,
which is a device that allows surgeons
to perform heart surgery faster and
safer, all while being minimally
invasive.
Vascugenix is partnering with local
hospitals such as Arkansas Heart Hos-
pital and Baptist Health, along with
Arkansas’ medical university, UAMS.
I congratulate the team who served
this great new product and great new
company in Little Rock.
MACARTHUR MUSEUM RECOGNITION
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the MacArthur
Museum of Arkansas Military History
for receiving the Outstanding Achieve-
ment in Collections Care and Conserva-
tion Award by the Arkansas Museums
Association.
This award recognizes excellence in
preservation and conservation and
practices that illustrate exceptional
standards that are set forth by the
American Alliance of Museums and So-
ciety of American Archivists.
The museum received this award for
renovations last year of the historic
Arsenal Building built in 1841, which
now houses the military history edu-
cational exhibits.
MacArthur Museum’s Executive Di-
rector, Stephen McAteer, was also rec-
ognized and received the Distinguished
Museum Professional of the Year
Award for his oversight role in these
renovations.
MacArthur Museum opened in May
2001, and continues to educate local,
State, national, and international visi-
tors about Arkansas’ military heritage.
Thank you to my friend, Stephen,
and all of the dedicated workers at the
MacArthur Military Museum of His-
tory for your service and leadership in
the preservation of Arkansas’ heritage.
RECOGNIZING THE RECIPIENT OF THE 2019 STEVE
WILLBANKS AWARD
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate my friend,
John Maus, for being awarded the 2019
Steve Willbanks award for community
service in his outstanding work in
Morrilton, Arkansas.
The Steve Willbanks award was es-
tablished in 2011 to honor his more
than 40 years of leadership as president
and CEO of Community Service, Incor-
porated.
Maus is a lifelong resident of Conway
County, and serves as president of the
Sacred Heart School Board, where he
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.010 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5085
June 25, 2019
graduated in 1981. He also serves as
president of the Sacred Heart Parish
Council, and recently co-chaired their
$3 million school and church renova-
tion project.
John is active in the community, and
serving on the Board for Community
Service Properties, and a member of
the ASU Beebe Ag-Tech advisory
board, as well as the University of Ar-
kansas Community College at
Morrilton Board of Visitors.
John’s service to the State of Arkan-
sas, and commitment to our youth will
never be forgotten, and I join all Ar-
kansans in congratulating John Maus
on this recognition, and I wish him
much continued success.
f
STOP NAFTA 2
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) for 5 minutes.
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. President, Amer-
ican workers and organized labor do
not support your renegotiated NAFTA.
Corporate America and wealthy elites
might, but don’t make any effort to
sell NAFTA’s half-baked, repackaged
broken promises to our workers, be
they industrial or farmhands. You defy
the liberty of our democracy when cor-
porate elites speak as the democratic
process.
The promise of higher wages and re-
turning jobs is not to be believed with-
out engagement to ensure the dignity
of labor, of labor rights, and labor en-
forcement on this continent.
Hidden between the lines of the cur-
rent NAFTA text are dollar signs and
profits for self-dealing, transnational
corporations that have outsourced our
jobs, and very wealthy lobbyists who
negotiated NAFTA 2’s deal. They do
not prioritize living-wage jobs, family-
sustaining wages, or workers’ environ-
mental safety and health conditions
across America. NAFTA 2 is still an es-
calator to the bottom for workers in
industrial plants and farmhands.
The ravages NAFTA inflicted on
America’s workers are etched across
American communities devastated by
the outsourcing of factories, many left
in economic ruin. NAFTA served as the
‘‘model’’ of modern integration of First
World and emerging world economies.
It was replicated in Central America
with what is called CAFTA-DR. The
same plundering of non-rich commu-
nities ensued throughout Mexico and
Central America. Many fell victim
then to drug cartels and gangs, over-
ridden with violence. Economic hope
further vanished.
Many of those refugees are coming to
our borders, if we but understand the
force driving them.
Today’s proposed new NAFTA will be
worse. In the quarter century under
NAFTA, more than a million American
jobs were outsourced, our workers’
wages stagnated, and U.S. trade defi-
cits with Mexico and Central American
countries increased exponentially, not
just a little bit.
The minimum million jobs lost in our
country are only those that are cer-
tified. Can you imagine how many
other jobs were lost related as sup-
pliers to those jobs?
Our Nation lost thousands of jobs to
penny-wage environments where work-
ers could not even afford to buy what
they made as they toiled in sweat-
shops, which I have visited in the
maquiladoras, exposed to unimaginable
toxins. And millions upon millions of
Mexico’s small farmers were obliter-
ated due to NAFTA.
This man knew the fate that would
be dealt him back in 1993, and it was.
This is a Mexican farmer that no
longer holds his land.
The original NAFTA fueled massive
migration from Mexico’s countryside
to our Nation, as thousands of very,
very, small farmers had their liveli-
hoods extinguished. A minimum of 2
million—million—Mexican farmers
were displaced as U.S. agricultural
products, heavily subsidized, flowed
tariff-free south over a 10-year period,
and Mexico’s white corn industry was
decimated.
Does anybody here care?
Wages in Mexico have gone down
under NAFTA, and U.S. wages and ben-
efits have been stuck for the majority
of over a quarter century in our coun-
try.
Due to NAFTA and CAFTA nations
alone, our southern neighbors stock us
with fresh produce. Meanwhile, our
multinational grain outfits send mil-
lions and millions of tons of feed grain
down there, displacing Mexico’s farm-
ers, and creating an endless flow of des-
perate, cheap labor across this con-
tinent.
Some very powerful people must love
this system, as ordinary, hardworking
people are quashed across this country
and held in bondage.
America must wake up to the impact
our trade deals impose on people. Sure-
ly our own citizens, but also people
who are exploited from other places
when you have unequal economies that
are joined at the hip by transnationals
who don’t give a hoot about people.
When multinational corporate inter-
ests dominate negotiations, and they
have a heavy thumb on the scales of
economic justice across the Americas,
trade with our closest neighbors is
never simply a zero-sum game, because
too few control those levers of negoti-
ating power.
It is no surprise that nearly half a
million migrants have been taken into
custody at our southern borders this
year alone. Half a million. In the past,
undocumented immigrants were over-
whelmingly single men from Mexico,
but that flow has changed.
As the President continues to nego-
tiate NAFTA, I urge him to include an
enforceable labor rights section, a
Labor Secretariat in NAFTA 2, or this
exploitation will continue.
Let’s stop NAFTA 2.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
SIX-MONTH REVIEW OF THE 116TH
CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. MEUSER) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to offer some observations re-
garding my first 6 months as a new
Member of the 116th Congress.
2019 began with Democrat leadership
denying the existence of an illegal im-
migration crisis at our southern border
during a 35-day government shutdown.
On 17 separate occasions since then,
House Republicans have attempted to
pass legislation that would provide $4.5
billion in humanitarian assistance.
While Democratic leadership is con-
sidering H.R. 3401 this week to discuss
humanitarian aid at the southern bor-
der, their proposal will not direct funds
toward expanding detention centers,
nor will it provide resources to correct
the crisis, which is precisely where this
kind of funding is needed.
While this bill is fundamentally
flawed, at least, at this point, there is
a bipartisan majority that admits we
have a real crisis that requires action.
Recent figures at the border are stag-
gering. U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection announced officers have appre-
hended or turned back nearly 700,000
migrants in the past 8 months. Fur-
ther, apprehensions in May marked the
highest monthly total in 13 years near
the southern border, with U.S. authori-
ties detaining or turning away more
than 140,000 people.
It is our sworn duty to put the Amer-
ican people over politics, especially in
the people’s House. As elected Rep-
resentatives, it is our responsibility to
deliver on issues that are important to
the American people.
This year’s Democratic leadership
agenda has focused on policy proposals
that incentivize illegal immigration.
Democratic leadership thought H.R. 1
was important to pass, though refused
to support a motion that would have
expressed that allowing illegal immi-
grants to vote be prohibited as it de-
values and diminishes the voting power
of an American citizen.
How would Democrat leadership ex-
pect this to pass in Congress, let alone
get signed by the President?
This is certainly not in the spirit of
compromise but is most certainly a
dead-end bill.
Further, Democrat leadership passed
H.R. 6, which includes various blanket
amnesty provisions. Amnesty should
never be passed by this House, espe-
cially when that bill includes no im-
provements to border security.
Not only is putting illegal immi-
grants ahead of legal immigrants
wrong, but to propose an amnesty bill
is an obvious incentive for illegal im-
migrants to cross over the U.S. border.
Another example is H.R. 987, a bill
originally focused on lower prescrip-
tion drug costs which was politicized so
it, too, has no chance of becoming law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.012 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5086 June 25, 2019
The provisions of propping up failed as-
pects of ObamaCare and banning asso-
ciation health plans is contrary policy
to what will drive down healthcare
costs, which is choice, competition, in-
novation, and State’s jurisdiction.
Making the Federal Government a
monopoly over healthcare is exactly
the wrong thing to do if we want to
achieve the goal of quality, affordable
healthcare for all. This goal can be ac-
complished while assuring a safety net
is in place, protecting preexisting con-
ditions, and keeping Medicare strong.
Additionally, bringing to the floor
and passage of the proposed United
States-Mexico-Canada agreement,
known as the USMCA, is critical to our
continued economic growth.
I state this as an objective outsider.
House Republicans and the President
continue to focus on growing the econ-
omy for all Americans, a strong na-
tional defense, including orderly hu-
manitarian border security, reducing
healthcare costs, free- and fair-trade
agreements, revitalizing our stressed
communities, regulatory reform, and
improving the quality of life of Amer-
ican families. We need bipartisan pol-
icy which puts Americans first, not
America alone, but country first.
f
b 1100
REAUTHORIZE NUTRIA
ERADICATION AND CONTROL ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. COSTA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to talk about a challenge that we
have in California’s waterways. It is a
challenge of an invasive species called
nutria.
Nutrias are commonly known as
swamp rats to many. They came from
South America decades ago, but they
raise havoc wherever they go.
They are a problem for California’s
already challenged water system. They
destroy canals and levees, which, in
turn, could lead to flooding and threat-
en water delivery to our farmers and
our farm communities.
Usually detected in large numbers,
they rapidly reproduce, which makes
eradication difficult.
Last week, I cosponsored legislation
with fellow Congressmen JOSH HARDER
and TJ COX to help fight the nutria
population growth. The bill will reau-
thorize the Nutria Eradication and
Control Act of 2003 and provide $7 mil-
lion toward efforts to rid the species
from California once and for all.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
legislation for California.
CELEBRATING PORTUGUESE HERITAGE MONTH
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize June as National Por-
tuguese Heritage Month.
Representative COX and I have intro-
duced legislation, along with the Por-
tuguese Caucus, to officially recognize
the key role that Portuguese Ameri-
cans have played in the growth of our
Nation and highlight their valuable
and significant contributions to our so-
ciety.
Portugal was the first neutral nation
to establish diplomatic ties with the
United States over 240 years ago. They
have contributed to every facet of
American society, from manning the
early whaling ships in New England to
the introduction of agriculture
throughout the country.
They have served with distinction
and proudly in our military and have
been leaders in government at every
level in our country. In 1979, Tony
Coelho, my friend from California, was
elected as the first American of Por-
tuguese descent to the United States
House of Representatives.
In addition to lawmaking, Por-
tuguese Americans have made lasting
contributions to science, music, and in
other areas of business, through people
like former Secretary of Energy and
nuclear physicist Ernest Moniz and the
famous March King, John Philip Sousa,
who wrote the iconic song ‘‘Stars and
Stripes Forever’’ as he headed the Ma-
rine Corps band.
They are also leaders in agriculture
throughout our Nation—in California,
most notably in the dairy industry.
The Portuguese American story is
the American story of immigrants past
and immigrants present who have come
here through generations to have a bet-
ter life for themselves and their fami-
lies.
Values that my own parents and
grandparents instilled in myself and
my sister have never been far from my
heart, that family and tradition and
that an ethic of hard work are impor-
tant in our country for all immigrant
groups, and realizing that with that
ethic, anything can be accomplished in
America.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues
today to join me in recognizing and
celebrating the many ways in which
the Portuguese American communities
have changed, shaped, and influenced
our country through our industries
and, most importantly, through their
ideals and their love of family and be-
coming a part of that American Dream.
Mr. Speaker, I inquire as to how
much time I have remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has 11⁄2 minutes remaining.
STRENGTHEN U.S.-ARMENIAN RELATIONS
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize another ethnic group that
has made so many contributions to
America, the Armenian community, to
underscore the importance and the
strong relationship between the United
States and Armenia.
The United States has enjoyed a long
history working with the Armenian
people toward a shared vision of a free
and democratic society.
The Armenian community has risen
over the past 100 years, after facing one
of the most atrocious acts in human
history: the first genocide in the 20th
century.
Notwithstanding that, they have pre-
vailed and continue to grow stronger,
not only in Armenia, but also through-
out the world.
In 2018, we witnessed the Armenian
people standing up and peacefully dem-
onstrating for change in their country,
and it happened. Nearly 1 year later,
the dawn of a new era represents an op-
portunity for the country and its peo-
ple to reach their full potential.
The United States can provide valu-
able support and help to empower the
Armenian people in this new and excit-
ing chapter in their country.
I am pleased, therefore, to support
H.R. 452, and I look forward to the op-
portunity to work with my colleagues
to continue to strengthen the bilateral
relations between the United States
and the Republic of Armenia.
RESOLVE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS AT SOUTHERN
BORDER ON BIPARTISAN BASIS
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, finally, let
me say to my colleagues in the House
that what is going on at the border be-
tween the United States and Mexico is
simply not the American way. We can
find solutions to resolve the humani-
tarian crisis that is taking place at our
border, but we must work together on
a bipartisan basis.
We must support the supplemental
legislation today that will provide ad-
ditional funding while working for
meaningful changes to take care of
people, to not separate children from
their families, and to act in a humane
way that reflects our values.
f
SOCIALISM RISKS LOSING TRUST
IN COMMUNITY SOLUTIONS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Washington (Mrs. RODGERS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to share a story
of power, people power.
This story doesn’t take place in the
Halls of Congress, in the department of
such and such, or in D.C., which is too
often called ‘‘the most powerful city in
the world.’’ This story takes place at
Hope House, a women’s homeless shel-
ter in Spokane, Washington.
Hope House, which is expanding be-
cause of a grant made possible because
of tax reform, helps women find a sec-
ond chance.
Heather Thomas-Taylor is the direc-
tor. As The Spokesman-Review re-
ported, she knows everyone staying at
the house by name. She feeds them
from donations from restaurants and
churches.
Once, a bride and groom, still in their
dress and tux, donated 2 weeks’ worth
of food left over from their reception.
Around the holidays, Hope House
fridges are so full they can’t even ‘‘fit
a slice of bologna’’ in them.
Mr. Speaker, this is what an empow-
ered community looks like, and it has
provided more than mandates and cen-
tralized bureaucratic power can ever
provide.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.014 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5087
June 25, 2019
Why is that? Because people like the
employees at Hope House, the director
leading its expansion, the bride and
groom, and our church congregations
have the power to improve the world
around them.
I have another story to share, but it
isn’t one of hope. It is one of people los-
ing their ability to serve their commu-
nity.
Nearly 14,000 people live in Pend
Oreille County in my district. Many
work in timber, mining, the hospital,
or elsewhere. However, in the entire
county, we are down to one childcare
center, just one, which is run by the
local Tribe, and they have a long wait-
ing list.
Statewide regulations are making it
too difficult for local providers to com-
ply with licensing requirements. As
one provider said in Washington,
‘‘There’s a rule for a rule for a rule.’’
Even the public hospital in Pend
Oreille County, with its resources and
lawyers, couldn’t comply to open a
daycare center.
Just imagine if these one-size-fits-all
rules were coming from the Federal
Government for every single neighbor-
hood in America. It is not that far from
reality.
I hear every day from local officials,
schools, farmers, and people who are
overwhelmed by costly mandates
forced on them by the Federal Govern-
ment. This is not what a government of
the people, by the people, and for the
people should look like.
I rise to share these stories so that
we will protect the people’s voices and,
ultimately, their power to create those
solutions that will work in their lives
and their communities.
By design and common sense, the in-
stitutions closest to the people yield
the best results as well as build trust.
If you were suddenly in need, who
would you trust, Hope House, which
you can look in the eye and know by
name, or a phone number that directs
you to someone sitting in a cubicle in
Washington, D.C.?
Losing that trust in community solu-
tions is what we risk when we start
embracing socialism. Socialism will di-
minish our individual liberties, iso-
lating us from the institutions that
empower us to make a difference in the
world around us. It will concentrate
power, where the people’s voices don’t
stand a chance against corruption.
That is why power doesn’t belong be-
hind an unelected bureaucrat’s desk,
where scandals like we have seen at the
IRS, the VA, and the FBI can run
rampant.
The promise of America is where peo-
ple, not the government, is trusted
with the potential to achieve our
dreams. We have a voice. We have that
power in our community.
The promise that socialism can pro-
vide these things is a false one. It never
happens.
Mr. Speaker, I will say it again: We
are a government of the people, by the
people, and for the people. For those
words to be true, the people’s House
must recognize where the people have
the most power and freedom to make
the best decisions for ourselves and our
families. It isn’t in the Federal Govern-
ment.
Like in Pend Oreille County, it is in
the community. It is our community,
our neighborhoods, our homes, our
schools, PTA meetings, churches, local
governments, and, yes, at Hope House
and daycare centers, too. It is neighbor
helping neighbor. We all need each
other at different times in our lives.
Mr. Speaker, it is community that
we must stand for, for the American
Dream to flourish.
f
MAKE COMMUNITIES HEALTHIER
AND SAFER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE) for 5 minutes.
Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to talk about making our com-
munities healthier and safer for all
Americans.
Let me start out by urging my col-
leagues to join me and my colleague,
JIM SENSENBRENNER, in supporting the
Functional Gastrointestinal and Motil-
ity Disorder Research Enhancement
Act, legislation that we are intro-
ducing today.
There are millions of Americans who
suffer from gastrointestinal and motil-
ity disorders. These are very common
gastrointestinal disorders in the gen-
eral population, but they affect tens of
millions of Americans.
Symptoms of these disorders include
pain in the inner organs, lack of motil-
ity, altered immune function, and al-
tered central nervous system function.
Although these symptoms can be life-
threatening, effective therapies exist.
Treatment, generally, focuses on man-
agement of the symptoms.
For nearly 30 years, patient advocacy
organizations, like the International
Foundation for Functional Gastro-
intestinal Disorders in my district,
have been working to support affected
individuals and their families.
Mr. Speaker, we are asking all of our
colleagues to join us in cosponsoring
this important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, while I am here address-
ing healthier and safer communities, I
would be remiss if I did not mention
the need to aggressively attack a cri-
sis, a health crisis, a public safety cri-
sis that is affecting all of our commu-
nities, and that is gun violence.
Mr. Speaker, it is often said that it
takes a village to raise a child, but it
takes a village to protect children, too.
That is why I am so inspired by my
own hometown of Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, to see what our community is
doing collectively to address gun vio-
lence. That is why I am inspired to see
that Milwaukee hospitals are working
to combat accidental shootings by of-
fering free gunlocks as a tool to pro-
tect children from guns in homes. The
city is also working to put violence in-
terrupters in our community to teach
people how to deescalate violence.
Communities like Milwaukee have
always stepped up when Congress falls
short, but now, Mr. Speaker, it is time
for Congress to act to pass common-
sense gun violence prevention meas-
ures that have widespread support.
It has been over 100 days, Mr. Speak-
er, since the House has passed H.R. 8,
strengthening background checks; H.R.
1585, the VAWA reauthorization that
includes new provisions to prevent
abusers from accessing guns; and H.R.
1112, closing the Charleston loophole
that allows individuals to get a gun if
their background checks haven’t been
completed within 3 days, all legislation
that would prevent the gun violence
that is hurting all our communities.
Yet, the Senate has failed to act, as
key Senators have opposed taking any
action.
That is irresponsible.
b 1115
We are not the only country that ex-
periences gun violence, but it seems
that we are the only ones not to do
anything about it except to offer
thoughts and prayers and moments of
silence.
Well, I will tell you, no more silence
over gun violence, from Sandy Hook
where 26 were killed to the Pulse night-
club shooting where 49 were killed, to
the third anniversary of the Oak Creek
Sikh temple shooting where 6 were
killed, to Stoneman Douglas High
School in Florida where 17 were killed,
to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where, last
fall, a 13-year-old girl was killed by a
stray bullet. Bullets don’t have eyes.
This spring, an 11-year-old was wound-
ed by a stray bullet.
Enough is enough. Mr. Speaker, it is
time for the Senate to take up H.R. 8
and to promote health and safety in
our communities.
f
RECOGNIZING MICHAEL TORPY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Mr. Michael Torpy, who passed away
on June 10 at the age of 20.
Diagnosed with an aggressive form of
bone cancer as a senior in high school,
Mr. Torpy refused to let the disease
break his spirit. He spent nearly 100
nights in the hospital receiving chemo-
therapy treatment, had numerous sur-
geries, and even had a prosthetic right
leg.
Yet Mr. Torpy went on to attend the
University of Georgia, maintain
straight A’s, and was named a Presi-
dential Scholar.
He continued his favorite hobby of
backpacking, kept up his wrestling
form with his old coach, and made an
effort every day to make his friends
smile.
Although not a long life, Mr. Torpy’s
mother remembers that he lived his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.016 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5088 June 25, 2019
life to the fullest. This should be an in-
spiration for all of us to both persevere
through tribulations, while also cele-
brating the gift of life.
Mr. Torpy’s family and friends will
be in my thoughts and prayers during
this most difficult time.
RECOGNIZING CECIL BOSWELL
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Mr. Cecil
Boswell, an American hero from Geor-
gia who served our Nation during
World War II.
Originally from Gainesville, Georgia,
Mr. Boswell deployed on the beaches of
Normandy during D-Day and fought in
the Battle of the Bulge, where he par-
ticipated in wrestling Europe from
Nazi control and also contributed to a
historical turning point in Western civ-
ilization.
Dodging close calls of his own, Mr.
Boswell experienced, firsthand, the
bravery and sacrifice of his fellow
American soldiers. Until he passed
away in 2017 at the age of 99, he was
known for his abundant patriotism, al-
ways flying an American flag in his
yard, displaying his war medals in his
home, and marching every year in the
annual Gainesville Memorial Day Pa-
rade.
On this 75th anniversary of D-Day, I
am proud of the rich military heritage
of Georgia that helped to secure vic-
tory for the Allied Forces. I am espe-
cially proud of and thankful for Mr.
Boswell for his bravery and service to
help defeat tyranny overseas and pro-
tect the freedom of all of Western civ-
ilization.
RECOGNIZING DENE SHEHEANE
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Mr. Dene
Sheheane for his work in helping Geor-
gia universities become national lead-
ers in access, affordability, completion
rates, and research output.
Mr. Sheheane began his work to bet-
ter our State’s education system near-
ly 30 years ago when he worked with
Governor Zell Miller, who was known
for spearheading the most important
higher education legislation in the
State of Georgia, the HOPE Scholar-
ship.
Since 2014, Mr. Sheheane has contin-
ued this effort, working with the com-
munity relations department at Geor-
gia Institute of Technology. In this
role he has secured Federal funding for
financial aid, renewal of the univer-
sity’s library, and projects within the
Georgia Tech Research Institute that
promote economic development and re-
search of key health and environ-
mental issues.
Because of his accomplishments thus
far at Georgia Tech, he was promoted
to president of the Georgia Tech Alum-
ni Association, and on July 1 he will
begin serving over 160,000 alumni
worldwide.
I want to thank Mr. Sheheane for all
he has done for the State of Georgia
and wish him good luck in all his en-
deavors to come.
RECOGNIZING BLAIR GREINER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker,
there is nothing more important than
character, and I rise today to recognize
an educator from Bucks County, Penn-
sylvania, who was recently honored as
Character Builder of the Year by the
Pennsbury LYFT. Blair Greiner, an art
teacher at William Penn Middle
School, received the award from
Pennsbury LYFT leaders Vicky Allen
and Gary Sanderson.
The Character Builder of the Year
Award is a unique distinction bestowed
upon gifted teachers and faculty mem-
bers who encourage their students to
make upright decisions and conduct
themselves in a positive manner.
Blair was nominated by several of
her colleagues, who described her as a
kind and passionate person who is al-
ways passionate about her work. They
cite a project she spearheaded design-
ing a mural for a retiring colleague and
creating a give one, take one initiative
that gives students and teachers the
ability to write uplifting messages for
peers having a tough day.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Blair on
this well-deserved award and would
like to thank LYFT for honoring he-
roes in our community and for advo-
cating for the youth in Bucks County.
RECOGNIZING THE FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH OF
PERKASIE
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize a faith commu-
nity in Bucks County, Pennsylvania,
for its innovation in providing pastoral
care to members of our community.
The First Baptist Church of Perkasie
recently unveiled a community center
known as Revivals that serves as a
soup kitchen, a counseling center, and
a food pantry, among many other pur-
poses.
Throughout the summer, members of
First Baptist Church of Perkasie will
hit the road with the Revivals block
party trailer mobile unit to offer serv-
ices to our community throughout
Bucks County. These family-friendly
events, in addition to other faith serv-
ices, have an array of food and games
to serve to bring people together.
Mr. Speaker, I applaud the faith com-
munity of First Baptist Church of
Perkasie. I would like to especially
thank Teaching Pastor Chris Heller,
Family Care Pastor Doug Henning, and
Ministries Pastor Jon Adams for all of
their work that they do for our Bucks
County community.
HONORING JESSICA WILCOX AND ALEX GOLDSBY
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize two student
athletes in Bucks County, Pennsyl-
vania, that were recently honored at
the 21st annual Kiwanis-Herald Schol-
ar-Athlete Awards Banquet in
Langhorne.
Jessica Wilcox and Alex Goldsby,
seniors at Conwell-Egan Catholic High
School, my alma mater, were recently
selected as recipients of the Levittown-
Bristol Kiwanis Club Dick Dougherty
Scholarship.
A 4-year starter on the Conwell-Egan
girls volleyball team, a 4-year member
of the softball team, and a two-time
first-team all-Catholic selection in
bowling, Jessica also served as a mem-
ber of the student council for 2 years.
As a 2-year starting quarterback for
the Conwell-Egan football team, Alex
was named the 2018 Philadelphia
Catholic League Paul Bartolomeo Top
Scholar-Athlete and was a member of
the 2018 Archdiocese of Philadelphia
Scholar-Athlete Honor Roll. As a start-
er, Alex threw for 1,972 yards and 21
touchdowns, and he also rushed for
over 1,100 yards and 25 touchdowns.
Mr. Speaker, I wish Jessica and Alex
all the best as they continue their
studies at Bucks County Community
College and Ursinus College, respec-
tively, and I congratulate both of them
and my alma mater on this amazing
distinction.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 23
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. ROSE of New York) at
noon.
f
PRAYER
Dr. James Merritt, Cross Pointe
Church, Duluth, Georgia, offered the
following prayer:
Our Father in Heaven, we come
thanking You for sending Your Son,
Jesus, to die for our sins; for these men
and women who have given their lives
to public service; and for the freedom
and the inalienable rights to life, lib-
erty, and the pursuit of happiness that
come from You, our creator.
I pray for every Member of this sa-
cred House that You would give them
the wisdom of Solomon to know what
is right and the courage of Daniel to do
what is right.
I pray that the golden rule would pre-
vail in their interpersonal relation-
ships. May they be ever mindful that
they will give an account to You for
every decision they make and every
law they pass.
Finally, would You please revive us
again that Your people may rejoice in
You. Hear our prayer in the name that
is above every name, Jesus Christ our
Lord.
Amen.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.018 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5089
June 25, 2019
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote on
agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, I object
to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentlewoman from Illinois (Mrs.
BUSTOS) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mrs. BUSTOS led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING DR. JAMES MERRITT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentleman from Georgia
(Mr. WOODALL) is recognized for 1
minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I have
the honor of hosting the guest chaplain
today, and I believe you were feeling
his words that we are all going to be
held to account at the end, as you re-
call, in that vote series there. Those
are powerful words, and it is not just
something he shares in Congress today;
it is something he shares with our en-
tire community.
If you recognized his voice in that
prayer, Mr. Speaker, it is because he is
the host of the Touching Lives Min-
istry. It can be seen in all 50 States and
around the world.
He has his lovely bride of more than
four decades, Teresa, with him here in
the gallery, and he leads back in my
home State, Mr. Speaker, Cross Pointe
Church in Duluth.
He left First Baptist Church
Snellville and was called to plant a new
congregation. It is a powerful ministry,
not just with the Word, but with what
the Word tells us we should do in deed,
and it is lived out there every day.
From 2000 to 2002, Mr. Speaker, he
was the president of the Southern Bap-
tist Convention. I told the gentleman
earlier that, if he can handle church
politics, he can certainly handle the
politics that we are involved in here.
But the honor for me, because I have
such deep respect for all of my col-
leagues here, is to share a little bit of
back home with each one of you.
Dr. Merritt embodies the Seventh
Congressional District values of faith
and family and duty, and I am grateful
to him, not just for his prayers in min-
istry to me, not just for his prayers in
ministry to our community, but to the
entire Nation and to the world.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 further re-
quests for 1-minute speeches on each
side of the aisle.
f
SECURE OUR ELECTIONS
(Mrs. BUSTOS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, it is a
fact that Russia, a foreign adversary,
interfered in our election and even
breached the voter database for the
State of Illinois, my home State.
For the sake of our national security,
this is an issue that must be addressed
by the United States Congress because
this isn’t a Republican issue and it is
not a Democratic issue. It is our duty
as Americans and elected officials to
protect our democracy.
That is why, this week, we will pass
the Securing America’s Federal Elec-
tions Act. Our bill would require voting
machines to be manufactured in the
United States of America. It would also
make investments to secure our elec-
tions and prevent interference from
foreign enemies in the future.
As Members of Congress, we take an
oath to protect our Constitution and
our democracy. I hope both Repub-
licans and Democrats will come to-
gether to support this bill and secure
our elections.
f
CELEBRATING RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM WEEK
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, Religious Freedom Week
began on Saturday and runs through
June 29.
Freedom of religion is a fundamental
human right and is protected by our
Constitution. The First Amendment
protects freedom of religion, along
with freedom of speech and freedom of
the press. This affords us the oppor-
tunity to have open and thoughtful de-
bates on the floor of the House each
and every day.
The United States is a place where
people of all faiths can peaceably prac-
tice their religion without fear of per-
secution, which is something we have
recognized since our founding. The
very foundation of our Nation, a place
of freedom and liberty for all, was con-
ceived by individuals in search of reli-
gious freedom.
Mr. Speaker, the United States of
America will always be a beacon of
light in the world, and we will always
protect our fundamental, unified com-
mitment to religious freedom. It is a
central part of what makes America
exceptional. It affords our citizens the
right to live in a free society, because
no person should live in fear for their
beliefs.
f
SPLIT TOLLING ON THE
VERRAZZANO-NARROWS BRIDGE
(Mr. ROSE of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to support the ap-
propriations bill on the floor this week
that would implement split tolling on
the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge.
This legislation is common sense. It
is nonpartisan, and it represents a mas-
sive win for all New Yorkers. It ad-
dresses the unintended consequences of
an archaic 30-year-old piece of legisla-
tion that singled out Staten Island and
South Brooklyn with the only bridge in
the country whose technology is con-
trolled by Congress.
Split tolling removes an obsolete
mandate that cars on the Verrazzano-
Narrows Bridge only be tolled as they
arrive in Staten Island, meaning that
eastbound drivers across the bridge
move across toll-free. Thousands of
cars each day take advantage of this
free ride and cause unnecessary conges-
tion on Staten Island, in Brooklyn, and
in Manhattan.
Split tolling cuts the toll in half and
collects it in both directions, closing
the loophole, and at no cost to com-
muters in Brooklyn or on Staten Is-
land.
Cutting down on out-of-State toll
shopping will also generate revenues
for New York to invest in mass transit
projects on Staten Island and in South
Brooklyn, two places that all levels of
government have consistently ignored
or ripped off for a generation now.
Finally, my constituents are starting
to see a new day after a long com-
muting nightmare: fewer cars on our
streets, better buses, more mass tran-
sit options, and credible alternatives to
reach the other boroughs.
This is commonsense legislation, and
we are going to get it done.
f
PRO ACT HURTS JOB CREATORS
AND THEIR EMPLOYEES
(Mr. RIGGLEMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today as a small business owner
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5090 June 25, 2019
concerned about the PRO Act, a bill
that will harm both job creators and
their employees.
The PRO Act would amend the Na-
tional Labor Relations Act and repeal
right-to-work laws. Right-to-work laws
protect employees from being fired for
not paying monetary support to a
union they don’t want to join.
The PRO Act also takes away em-
ployers’ rights in National Labor Rela-
tions Board cases by taking away their
standing and giving employers no re-
course to the NLRB.
My district is home to over 2,100
small franchise business owners that
could be negatively impacted by this
bill. It will hurt businesses like
Arrington Enterprises, Inc., which op-
erates Dairy Queens, Bojangles’ Fa-
mous Chicken ‘n Biscuits, and Exxon
stores in Franklin County.
Aside from delivering a quality prod-
uct, Arrington Enterprises, Inc., has
collected close to $18,000 for Children’s
Miracle Network Hospitals and donated
$4,800 to local schools so far this year.
In closing, this bill would hurt local
businesses and local workers.
f
WAR IN THE MIDDLE EAST
(Mr. HIMES asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, I am
not in the habit of praising the Presi-
dent from this perch, but I do want to
say that I am very pleased that we are
not in yet another shooting war in the
Middle East today.
I think we came very, very close, and
I appreciate that the President had the
courage to stand down some raids that,
undoubtedly, would have led to a re-
sponse and led to another war in the
Middle East.
I know he does that at the risk of
being criticized for potentially dam-
aging American credibility, but we are
not in a war today. That is an argu-
ment for history.
What is not an argument for history
is that any aggression, any military
action against Iran, must be approved
by the Congress of the United States.
It is clear in the Constitution that a
decision to go to war must be made in
this building.
I urge my friends on both sides of the
aisle to reflect on the reason for that.
If we are going to sacrifice blood and
treasure, the Representatives of the
people must make that decision, not
one individual at the other end of
Pennsylvania Avenue.
Now is the time for us to consider
whether another Middle Eastern war
makes sense for the people of the
United States of America.
f
OBSERVING ALZHEIMER’S AND
BRAIN AWARENESS MONTH
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize June as Alz-
heimer’s and Brain Awareness Month.
Alzheimer’s disease affects more than
5 million Americans. It is also our Na-
tion’s most expensive disease.
We have got to continue working to-
ward finding a cure for Alzheimer’s;
but, in the meantime, we have to cut
down on preventable hospitalizations
and lower the cost of care. That is why
I cosponsored the BOLD Infrastructure
for Alzheimer’s Act last Congress,
which President Trump has since
signed into law. This bill will help edu-
cate community members and doctors
on dementia detection, diagnosis, and
symptom management.
This Congress, I cosponsored the bi-
partisan Younger Onset Alzheimer’s
Act, to ensure younger people dealing
with dementia or other symptoms have
access to the counseling and support
they need.
I urge my colleagues, family, friends,
and neighbors to do their part and
know the warning signs of Alzheimer’s
disease. Education and awareness can
make a huge difference in a person’s
life.
f
STOP BUSTING THE BUDGET CAP
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to the appropria-
tions minibus that we will be voting on
this afternoon.
Like the first appropriations pack-
age, this legislation is being considered
without reaching a budget agreement,
and it would bust the budget caps by
over $350 billion in fiscal years ‘20 and
‘21.
Not only is the majority spending
out of control on programs we cur-
rently have, but they are creating new
programs in these bills. This cir-
cumvents the authorization process
and compounds the debt problem.
Last week, I submitted an amend-
ment to eliminate funding for one of
these new pilot programs that would
use Americans’ hard-earned tax dollars
to provide legal representation to those
arriving at our southern border. My
amendment would have reallocated
that funding to assist victims of
human trafficking and address school
violence, both issues growing at the
local level in our communities.
Unfortunately, Democrats on the
Rules Committee voted along party
lines to prevent my amendment from
coming to the floor. I call on Democrat
leadership to stop silencing common-
sense proposals and let us debate those
tough issues. It is what we were elected
to do.
f
b 1215
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
TITUS) laid before the House the fol-
lowing communication from the Clerk
of the House of Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, June 25, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
June 25, 2019, at 9:21 a.m.:
Appointment:
Board of Visitors of the U.S. Coast Guard
Academy.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
JAPAN-UNITED STATES FRIEND-
SHIP COMMISSION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2903,
and the order of the House of January
3, 2019, of the following Member on the
part of the House to the Japan-United
States Friendship Commission:
Mr. HILL, Arkansas
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR
THE PERFORMING ARTS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to section 2(a) of
the National Cultural Center Act (20
U.S.C. 76h(a)), amended by Public Law
107–117, and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, of the following Mem-
ber on the part of the House to the
Board of Trustees of the John F. Ken-
nedy Center for the Performing Arts:
Mr. SMITH, Missouri
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Honorable KEVIN
MCCARTHY, Republican Leader:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 8, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to House
Resolution 6 Section 104(a), I am pleased to
appoint remaining Republican Members to
the House Democracy Partnership:
Hon. JEFF FORTENBERRY of Nebraska.
Hon. K. MICHAEL CONAWAY of Texas.
Hon. ADRIAN SMITH of Nebraska.
Hon. STEVE WOMACK of Arkansas.
Hon. BILL FLORES of Texas.
Hon. JACKIE WALORSKI of Indiana.
Hon. TOM RICE of South Carolina.
Hon. MARKWAYNE MULLIN of Oklahoma.
Thank you for your attention to this mat-
ter.
Sincerely,
KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.022 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5091
June 25, 2019
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on the Judici-
ary be discharged from further consid-
eration of H.R. 962, the Born-Alive
Abortion Survivors Protection Act,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I urge the Speaker
and Majority Leader to immediately
schedule a vote to protect born-alive
infants of failed abortions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 2722, SECURING AMER-
ICA’S FEDERAL ELECTIONS ACT;
WAIVING A REQUIREMENT OF
CLAUSE 6(a) OF RULE XIII WITH
RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF
CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS RE-
PORTED FROM THE COMMITTEE
ON RULES; AND PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3351, FI-
NANCIAL SERVICES AND GEN-
ERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2020
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, by
direction of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 460 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 460
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider in the
House the bill (H.R. 2722) to protect elections
for public office by providing financial sup-
port and enhanced security for the infra-
structure used to carry out such elections,
and for other purposes. All points of order
against consideration of the bill are waived.
In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a
substitute recommended by the Committee
on House Administration now printed in the
bill, an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of Rules Com-
mittee Print 116-20, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of the report of the
Committee on Rules accompanying this res-
olution, shall be considered as adopted. The
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.
All points of order against provisions in the
bill, as amended, are waived. The previous
question shall be considered as ordered on
the bill, as amended, and on any further
amendment thereto, to final passage without
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of
debate equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Committee on House Administration; and (2)
one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions.
SEC. 2. The requirement of clause 6(a) of
rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to consider a
report from the Committee on Rules on the
same day it is presented to the House is
waived with respect to any resolution re-
ported through the legislative day of June
27, 2019, relating to a measure making appro-
priations.
SEC. 3. At any time after adoption of this
resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House
resolved into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 3351) making appro-
priations for financial services and general
government for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes. The
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed
with. All points of order against consider-
ation of the bill are waived. General debate
shall be confined to the bill and shall not ex-
ceed one hour equally divided and controlled
by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Appropriations. After
general debate the bill shall be considered
for amendment under the five-minute rule.
The bill shall be considered as read. Points of
order against provisions in the bill for fail-
ure to comply with clause 2 or clause 5(a) of
rule XXI are waived.
SEC. 4. (a) No amendment to the bill shall
be in order except those printed in part B of
the report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution, amendments en bloc
described in section 5 of this resolution, and
pro forma amendments described in section 6
of this resolution.
(b) Each amendment printed in part B of
the report of the Committee on Rules shall
be considered only in the order printed in the
report, may be offered only by a Member des-
ignated in the report, shall be considered as
read, shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an opponent,
may be withdrawn by the proponent at any
time before action thereon, shall not be sub-
ject to amendment except as provided by
section 6 of this resolution, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the ques-
tion in the House or in the Committee of the
Whole.
(c) All points of order against amendments
printed in part B of the report of the Com-
mittee on Rules or against amendments en
bloc described in section 5 of this resolution
are waived.
SEC. 5. It shall be in order at any time for
the chair of the Committee on Appropria-
tions or her designee to offer amendments en
bloc consisting of amendments printed in
part B of the report of the Committee on
Rules accompanying this resolution not ear-
lier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered
pursuant to this section shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes
equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations or their respective
designees, shall not be subject to amendment
except as provided by section 6 of this resolu-
tion, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question in the House or
in the Committee of the Whole.
SEC. 6. During consideration of the bill for
amendment, the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Appropriations
or their respective designees may offer up to
5 pro forma amendments each at any point
for the purpose of debate.
SEC. 7. At the conclusion of consideration
of the bill for amendment the Committee
shall rise and report the bill to the House
with such amendments as may have been
adopted. In the case of sundry amendments
reported from the Committee, the question
of their adoption shall be put to the House
en gros and without division of the question.
The previous question shall be considered as
ordered on the bill and amendments thereto
to final passage without intervening motion
except one motion to recommit with or with-
out instructions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Massachusetts is recog-
nized for 1 hour.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to my good
friend, the gentleman from Oklahoma
(Mr. COLE), pending which I yield my-
self such time as I may consume. Dur-
ing consideration of this resolution, all
time yielded is for the purpose of de-
bate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers be given 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, on
Monday night, the Rules Committee
met and reported a rule, House Resolu-
tion 460. It provides for consideration
of H.R. 3351 under a structured rule
that makes 46 amendments in order,
with 1 hour of general debate con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
It also provides for consideration of
H.R. 2722 under a closed rule with 1
hour of general debate provided, con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee on House
Administration. It also provides same-
day authority through the legislative
day of Thursday, June 27, 2019, relating
to appropriations measures.
Madam Speaker, this underlying
package of bills is proof that this
Democratic majority is committed to
getting its work done both for routine
matters like appropriations and emer-
gency priorities facing our Nation.
Take the first measure, H.R. 3351, the
Financial Services and General Gov-
ernment Appropriations Act. This
builds on our efforts to fund the gov-
ernment for fiscal year 2020 in a timely
way. Instead of hollowing out impor-
tant investments like past Republican
majorities have done, this Democratic
majority is investing in our future.
This legislation not only ensures
both the executive and judicial
branches can continue to operate for
the American people, there is also lan-
guage here to protect consumers from
dangerous products and help small
businesses thrive, especially in dis-
tressed communities.
Most notably, Madam Speaker, this
bill provides hundreds of millions in
grants to strengthen the integrity of
our election system. This is especially
important since, if left to his own de-
vices, I don’t think our President
would even acknowledge that there is a
crisis of confidence in our elections fol-
lowing Russia’s meddling in 2016, let
alone act so it never happens again. He
seems content to welcome future inter-
ference rather than prevent it, so it is
especially important that this Con-
gress takes the lead to protect our de-
mocracy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.026 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5092 June 25, 2019
That is why we are also moving here
to consider H.R. 2722, the Securing
America’s Federal Elections Act. The
Mueller report made clear that Russia
waged an all-out attack on our elec-
tions. Putin put his thumb on the scale
for President Trump, and intelligence
officials have made clear that he and
others are trying to attack us again in
the next election.
I want to repeat that, Madam Speak-
er, in case the President happens to be
watching. Our very democracy is under
attack. No troops have been sent into
combat. No guns have been fired, but a
foreign adversary is turning the inter-
net and the ballot box into battlefields
with the integrity of the vote at stake.
It is beyond me why this President
has not acted as if this is a national
emergency. Instead, he said the other
day that he thinks he would take cam-
paign dirt about an opponent from a
foreign government. You can’t make
this stuff up, Madam Speaker. That is
like leaving the front door wide open
when you know there is a burglar in
town. He is not preventing future acts,
he is encouraging them.
Before my friends on the other side
chalk this up to a slip of the tongue,
let me remind them that his own
former communications director, Hope
Hicks, testified recently that she be-
lieves he is serious about accepting in-
formation from a foreign source.
This President may not be stepping
up to secure our elections, but this
Democratic majority is. This bill
would enact things like verified paper
ballots, cybersecurity upgrades, and
State grants to secure voting systems.
This majority passed H.R. 1 in the
opening months of this Congress. That
package includes reforms to fix our de-
mocracy. But under Leader MCCON-
NELL, the Senate did with it what it
seems to do best: nothing.
He refused to even bring H.R. 1 up for
a vote. Now, I don’t know why Leader
MCCONNELL is ignoring the warnings
from our intelligence officials or why
he seems content with weaknesses in
our election systems. Maybe he is un-
willing to ever break from Donald
Trump on anything, even something
this important, which really is quite
sad. But I hope this time he will try
something radical for the Senate: have
a vote. Bring this bill up so the Amer-
ican people can see whose side you are
on.
Lastly, Madam Speaker, this bill also
gives us flexibility to deal with an
emergency of a different kind—the one
this President is creating on our south-
ern border. President Trump’s policies
have led to children sleeping on con-
crete floors, dirty and hungry with no
access to soap or even a toothbrush,
sometimes left to be cared for by chil-
dren just a few years older than they
are. It is hard to believe that this is
happening in the United States of
America today.
This House will act, and I hope the
Senate does the same thing. I encour-
age all my colleagues to vote for this
rule and the underlying legislation, so
we can do our jobs and act on these im-
portant issues.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume. I
want to thank my good friend, the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts, Chairman
MCGOVERN, for yielding me the cus-
tomary 30 minutes.
Madam Speaker, we are here today
on two very different pieces of legisla-
tion. Last night at the Rules Com-
mittee, I noted that these unrelated
bills have only one thing in common,
and that is their place in the Demo-
cratic majority’s partisan, going-no-
where agenda. Unfortunately, I believe
today’s rule is only going to compound
that recurring problem of the Demo-
crats, frankly, not even trying to work
with Republicans to actually legislate
in divided government.
Our first bill today is H.R. 3351, the
Financial Services and General Gov-
ernment Appropriations Act of 2020.
This is the 10th of 12 appropriations
bills to come to the floor. As we have
worked through these bills, I have
raised several concerns that are appli-
cable to this bill as well.
Like the previous appropriations
bills this Congress, H.R. 3351 is marked
to a high allocation figure that has no
basis in reality. Remember, the House
and Senate have not agreed to an over-
all budget for fiscal year 2020, which
the Congressional Budget Act man-
dates be done by April 15.
b 1230
Without a budget agreement, the
budget cap numbers contained in the
Budget Control Act will automatically
take effect, leading to an 11 percent cut
in defense spending and a 9 percent cut
in nondefense spending.
Instead of working with Republicans
in the Senate to reach a deal before
marking and reporting funding bills,
the majority has, instead, gone ahead
and pushed through their own partisan
appropriations bills that are marked to
fake and unrealistic numbers.
The 12 appropriations bills the major-
ity has proposed have several flaws in
common. They reflect the idea that
any increase in defense spending must
be matched by an even greater increase
in nondefense spending, which simply
isn’t a realistic assessment of our na-
tional priorities.
What is worse, these bills actually
underfund defense and homeland secu-
rity, coming in below the numbers that
the President requested in order to en-
sure our military can adequately de-
fend our Nation.
The FSGG bill we are considering
today contains an 8 percent increase
over fiscal year 2019, which makes lit-
tle sense when we are simultaneously
underfunding our national security.
Like the previous bills brought by
my Democratic friends, the Financial
Services appropriations bill also con-
tains several partisan provisions that
must be removed before a bipartisan,
bicameral agreement can be reached on
spending.
The majority has removed long-
standing pro-life protections, such as a
rider that prohibits the District of Co-
lumbia from using government funds to
provide for abortions except in cases of
rape, incest, or health of the mother.
The majority has also cut out a long-
standing provision that I originally
sponsored several years ago barring
government contractors from being
forced to disclose political campaign
contributions. Since I originally spon-
sored this provision several years ago,
I find it surprising that the majority
would eliminate this provision, which
provides important protections for gov-
ernment contractors and prevents con-
tracts from being awarded on the basis
of contributions.
Of course, there was an opportunity
to work through and fix these problems
through the amendment process. But
instead of making things better, the
majority has chosen, once again, to
leave out minority voices.
I want to reiterate a point I made the
last time I was on the floor for a rule.
During the last Congress, when Repub-
licans were in the majority, our record
shows that we allowed more amend-
ments sponsored solely by Democrats
than we did amendments sponsored
solely by Republicans.
The current majority has a much sor-
rier record. As of yesterday, of all
amendments made in order this Con-
gress, 67 percent were sponsored by
Democrats, 19 percent by Republicans,
and 13 percent were bipartisan.
Today’s rule is right in line with that
record. Sixty-seven percent of the
amendments made in order are spon-
sored by Democrats, 24 percent by Re-
publicans, and 9 percent are bipartisan.
Madam Speaker, this record of par-
tisanship is a far cry from what the
majority promised at the start of this
Congress. There was an opportunity to
move forward with fulfilling the major-
ity’s promises with today’s rule. In-
stead, we see few Republican amend-
ments and many Democratic amend-
ments, resulting in a final product that
will fail to achieve the bipartisan sup-
port needed to become law.
The second bill included in this rule
is H.R. 2722, which the majority is pro-
moting as a bill that provides security
for elections. The reality is that this
bill, like its partisan predecessor H.R. 1
that passed the House earlier this Con-
gress, amounts to nothing less than a
complete Federal takeover of elections.
Traditionally, elections are left to
the States and local governments to
conduct as they see fit. Localities can
respond to local conditions; election of-
ficials can innovate; and elections can
be operated in a way that best suits the
unique needs of each community.
H.R. 2722 turns all that on its head.
The bill will force all elections to be
conducted using paper ballots, even if
the local officials prefer more advanced
technology. It will require costly re-
counts with no apparent purpose. It
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.027 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5093
June 25, 2019
will impose significant and wasteful
spending on taxpayers.
Instead of affirming States as the
laboratories of democracy, when it
comes to elections, H.R. 2722 will im-
pose a one-size-fits-all regulatory re-
gime directed from Washington on
communities across the country.
Madam Speaker, this state of affairs
could and should have been avoided. In-
stead of pushing these partisan bills
this week, the majority could have
chosen to work with Republicans to
craft bipartisan bills to address all of
these problems.
Even if that did not come to pass, the
majority at the Rules Committee still
could have worked with the minority
to make more minority amendments in
order and give all Members the oppor-
tunity to fix these flawed bills on the
floor. That they did not is yet another
indication of where the majority’s pri-
orities lie: with pushing partisan bills
to score political points and avoiding
the bipartisan work of actually making
law.
There is still a chance to change,
Madam Speaker. In order to do so, the
majority needs to decide whether they
are here to score political points or if
they are here to make law.
Before I conclude, I would be remiss
if I did not highlight what is missing in
today’s rule. We should have been con-
sidering three bills today, not two. The
missing bill is the supplemental appro-
priations bill providing funding for the
humanitarian crisis on the southern
border.
Each week, this crisis grows worse.
Our facilities for holding new arrivals,
particularly children and vulnerable
unaccompanied minors, are already at
the breaking point. Simply put, we
need more resources, and we need them
today.
To be fair to the President, he has
been asking Congress to do that since
May 1. The failure to bring forward a
supplemental appropriations bill for
this purpose is a major failure of gov-
ernance by the majority.
All of us here, Republicans and
Democrats alike, agree that we need to
provide funding for this crisis. Time is
wasting while we wait.
Back in 2014, when President Obama
asked us for $3.7 billion in supple-
mental resources for precisely the
same purpose, the House acted to give
him the resources he needed in 24 days.
As of today, almost 2 months have
gone by with the majority failing to
act.
Many of my friends on the other side
rightfully express concern that unac-
companied minors backing up at border
stations is not appropriate nor in the
best interests of the children. I
couldn’t agree more. The Border Patrol
couldn’t agree more.
By failing to bring forward a supple-
mental appropriations bill, the path
the majority is taking us on leads only
to this outcome: hurting the children I
know we all want to help.
Congress has given HHS the mandate
to care for unaccompanied minors.
Congress now needs to write the check
so that HHS can do what Congress has
mandated.
I remind my friends across the aisle
that Republicans are ready and willing
to work with them to pass a bipartisan
supplemental appropriations package
that provides needed funding for hous-
ing, for the Department of Defense, and
especially for children who find them-
selves in an unfathomable situation at
the border.
Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to
the rule, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I thank the gentleman for his com-
ments, and I would like to say for the
record that when it comes to this piece
of legislation, the Financial Services
appropriations bill, Democrats actu-
ally did much better than the Repub-
licans did when they were in charge.
In fact, we made more amendments
in order. We made more minority
amendments in order than the Repub-
licans did when they were in charge. In
fact, there is a 57 percent increase, in
terms of minority amendments being
made in order compared to what they
did.
Let me also point out for the record
that my Republican friends, I think,
tend to be a little redundant in the
amendments that they offer.
For example, I think they submitted
three amendments on the wall. We
make one amendment. Do we have to
debate the wall three different times?
On spending reductions, four amend-
ments were submitted. We make two in
order, which is probably two too many.
We should have made one in order.
The bottom line is, there is a habit of
just offering the same old, same old,
again and again and again. Quite
frankly, the minority will get its op-
portunity to debate these issues but
not over and over and over again.
Let’s also get to the substance here.
The gentleman said these are two unre-
lated bills. Well, I disagree. The Finan-
cial Services appropriations bill actu-
ally funds the Election Assistance
Commission, and the other bill we are
considering, the SAFE Act, authorizes
the Election Assistance Commission at
the same amount that is in the appro-
priations bill. They are very much
intertwined.
Let me also say, I expect that, before
the day is out, we will do a supple-
mental emergency bill to deal with the
crisis that this President has created
at the border.
Let me also be clear that what we
want to make sure is that, when we
provide the funding, this cruel treat-
ment of children at the border comes
to an end.
This administration’s deliberate pol-
icy of separating children from their
parents, of allowing children, almost
infants, to sleep on cold floors, to be
denied basic necessities like soap and
toothpaste and toothbrushes, I mean,
it is child abuse. It is unconscionable,
so we want to demand that this admin-
istration stop it.
This is the United States of America.
I think the American people are horri-
fied at the inhumanity that they are
reading about that is occurring to
these little children at our border.
It is unbelievable. I never thought
that we would ever be on the House
floor talking about how children who
have fled some of the worst conditions
imaginable are being so mistreated at
the border.
So, yes, we will have a supplemental
appropriations bill to deal with it, but
we are going to demand that the cruel
policies of this administration stop and
stop now.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Vermont (Mr.
WELCH).
Mr. WELCH. Madam Speaker, there
is a crisis at the southern border. That
is true. This past month, 140,000 people
showed up seeking asylum: 84,000 fami-
lies, 11,000 children.
But everything—every single thing—
that the Trump administration is
doing, led by President Trump himself,
is making a very dire situation worse.
First, start with the definition that
our President gives for what is going
on. It is the arrival of rapists, of crimi-
nals, of gang members, when every sin-
gle one of us who has been on that
heartbreaking trip to the southern bor-
der knows it is children, women, and
families who are fleeing violence, who
are fleeing gang members, and who are
fleeing destitution and grinding pov-
erty.
Those are the people arriving at the
border. Their crime, made criminal by
the administration, is to seek help, to
knock on America’s door and ask for
help.
We may not be able to do all that we
would like, but is it a crime for a per-
son to ask for assistance?
Second, by defining the crisis as an
invasion of criminals—the Trump defi-
nition—the Trump policy is to treat
these people worse than criminals, first
starting with the family separation
policy where children, literally, were
yanked out of the arms of their par-
ents.
Many of those children still don’t
know where their father or their moth-
er is. That is being done in your name
and mine, with the full authority of
the American Government and the
widespread opposition of the American
people.
Then, when these people are in our
custody, it is the imposition of cruel
and brutal conditions on children and
innocent people whose crime is to seek
some assistance.
We had a Trump attorney, in Federal
court, arguing that when it came to
fulfilling the duty that we had of hold-
ing in custody children, it was okay to
deny them toothbrushes, soap, access
to showers, and sanitary conditions,
and to have them sleeping on cement
floors in frigid conditions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.029 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5094 June 25, 2019
This is shocking. It is unnecessary. It
is inhumane. In short, it is a policy of
calculated cruelty, family separation,
and affliction of wholesale suffering.
It must end. We must immediately
return all children to their parents and
provide humane, sanitary, and safe
conditions for those seeking asylum.
We must work with El Salvador,
Honduras, and Guatemala to improve
conditions in those countries to ad-
dress humanitarian conditions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 1 minute to the
gentleman from Vermont.
Mr. WELCH. We must not withdraw
hundreds of millions of dollars in aid,
as the President decrees.
Mr. President, the response to this
crisis must not be cruelty.
Enforce our laws, yes. Work with
Central American governments, yes.
But treat all who seek America’s help
with respect and dignity.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
b 1245
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I want to remind my friends that it
took them weeks, if not longer, to even
acknowledge there was a crisis at the
border. As a matter of fact, they were
accusing the President of manufac-
turing the crisis a few weeks ago. Now,
fortunately, they have come around to
the idea that hundreds of thousands of
people arriving over a 3-month period
of time is a crisis.
Secondly, I want to remind them,
they have still yet to act in the face of
the crisis. They have had the ability to
pass legislation. The President asked
for it almost 60 days ago. We still
haven’t seen anything in terms of leg-
islation reaching this floor.
Madam Speaker, I also want to point
out that, frankly, it shouldn’t take this
long to respond. We can disagree over a
lot of things. And I have no doubt
about the sincerity of my friends when
it comes to being concerned about the
well-being of these children; none
whatsoever.
But we know that part of this crisis
is created because we haven’t given the
President the emergency funds he
needs to quickly move people out of fa-
cilities where they were never designed
to be, into influx facilities that we are
trying to stand up, literally, right now.
One of these is going to be in my dis-
trict.
We dealt with this, by the way, in
2014. We did it with President Obama;
supported it; gave him the funds he
needed; a Republican House, a Demo-
cratic Senate, and the President. He
got that money in 24 days. One of those
facilities was set up in my district.
Again, we don’t like using military
bases in this way; don’t approve of it;
but we understand that President
Obama faced an emergency situation,
and we gave him the tools and the re-
sources he needed to deal with that.
That needs to happen now.
Frankly, what we are seeing in the
House is quite a contrast to the Sen-
ate, which has a bill in the Appropria-
tions Committee that was reported out
30–1. It is bipartisan. It is a bill the
President has expressed a willingness
to sign. We ought to be working with
that vehicle, if my friends can’t get
something to the floor to deal with this
urgent crisis now.
Madam Speaker, I would also, if I
may, like to inform the Chair that if
we defeat the previous question, I will
offer an amendment to the rule to im-
mediately bring up Congressman
DAVIS’ Election Security Assistance
Act for consideration under an open
rule.
This bill provides targeted and cru-
cially needed resources to State and
local election administrators to help
secure America’s voting infrastructure.
Unlike the majority’s partisan bill that
takes over all election operations and
replaces local authority with a one-
size-fits-all mandate from Washington,
the Republican alternative provides
needed resources without stepping on
the toes of State and local election ad-
ministrators.
It provides grants to States to update
aging and at-risk election infrastruc-
ture; provides security clearances to
election officials to facilitate the shar-
ing of information about threats with
frontline officials; increases resources
available to States and local govern-
ments; and provides for hands-on as-
sistance, as needed.
Madam Speaker, we all agree that
our elections need to be protected, and
we all agree that more resources and
more assets are necessary to accom-
plish that goal. But rather than push-
ing a complicated mandate from Wash-
ington that wastes taxpayer dollars
and eliminates the tradition of State
and local control over the election op-
erations, we can do better by providing
resources for security improvements
and reinforcements for local officials
with the minimum additional regula-
tion.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to insert the text of my
amendment in the RECORD, along with
extraneous material, immediately
prior to the vote on the previous ques-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS), my good friend,
the author of the legislation in ques-
tion.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to urge
my colleagues to defeat the previous
question so the House may consider
election security legislation that actu-
ally has a chance at becoming law.
As I explained last night during de-
bate of H.R. 2722 at the Rules Com-
mittee, there is no place for partisan-
ship when it comes to securing our
elections.
H.R. 2722, the SAFE Act, is simply
another partisan bill by the majority
aimed at federally mandating election
standards; like mandating that States
exclusively use paper ballots, effec-
tively banning any type of direct re-
cording electronic voting machines
which have been proven safe and effi-
cient.
Madam Speaker, keep this in mind;
that if this legislation passes, if one of
our local election officials had just
worked to spend hundreds of thousands
of dollars purchasing new, digital elec-
tronic machines with a paper backup,
those machines and that investment of
their hard-earned tax dollars would be
obsolete in the year 2022, 3 years from
now. That is not right.
Mandating the exclusive use of paper
ballots will create longer lines at poll-
ing places, and can be lost, destroyed,
or manipulated far easier than elec-
tronic voting machines with a paper
trail backup.
I want to highlight the fact that
there is no evidence of voting machines
being hacked in 2016, 2018, or ever. So
why are we forcing States to get rid of
what they have deemed as safe tech-
nology?
We should work together to safe-
guard technology. Safeguard tech-
nology not abandon it. We don’t know
in this institution what technology is
going to look like when it comes to
voting machines in the next five to 10
years. Why are we requiring a certain
type of ballot process that is only
going to be processed by five compa-
nies that maybe produce it today? That
is not what we should be doing here in
Washington.
Additionally, the SAFE Act federally
mandates hand recounts, which will re-
sult in drawn-out elections that will
become unnecessarily expensive.
The majority’s bill also contains irre-
sponsible funding commitments. The
funding of elections is the primary re-
sponsibility of our States. Democrats
are committing $1.3 billion over 10
years, with zero funding match require-
ments from States.
Congress has a responsibility to be
good stewards of taxpayer dollars.
Funds should be given based on need,
not a guess of what might be needed a
decade down the road.
I want the record to be clear. Many
of the provisions in the SAFE Act are
inconsistent with what we have heard
from experts in election administra-
tion. But the majority is ignoring their
requests.
As my colleagues across the aisle
know, I believe there are areas on elec-
tion security where Republicans and
Democrats can find and have found
common ground. There is a role for
Congress in election security, which is
why, me and my fellow members on the
House Administration Committee, in-
troduced H.R. 3412, the Election Secu-
rity Assistance Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.031 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5095
June 25, 2019
I want to thank my colleagues on the
committee, MARK WALKER and BARRY
LOUDERMILK, for joining me in this ef-
fort, and the others who have cospon-
sored it since its introduction. This re-
alistic legislation provides $380 million
in Federal grants to States to update
their aging and at-risk election infra-
structure, while requiring a 25 percent
match from States.
If it is good for transportation
projects; if it is good for DHS projects,
DOJ projects, USDA projects, why
don’t we have locals and States have
some skin in the game?
In addition, our bill creates the first-
ever Election Cyber Assistance Unit. It
is aimed at connecting State and local
election officials with leading election
administration and cybersecurity ex-
perts from across the Nation.
Our bill empowers State officials by
providing security clearances to elec-
tion officials to better facilitate the
sharing of information and requiring
the Department of Homeland Security
to notify State election officials of
cyberattacks and any foreign threats
within the State. Keep in mind, the
majority bill does not address this.
If DHS hacked a local election offi-
cial’s election system, if they saw a
hack in, let’s say, central Nevada, DHS
would not be able to notify your local
election official because he or she may
not have security clearance. The ma-
jority bill doesn’t address this. Our bill
does.
To sum it up, our solution provides
much-needed election security im-
provements and reinforcements for
local election officials without over-
stepping the State’s authority to main-
tain their elections. The Election Secu-
rity Assistance Act, our bill, is the
only proposal being discussed today
that has a realistic chance of becoming
law.
If the previous question is defeated,
it will be the first step in putting forth
election security legislation that has a
chance of helping States improve their
security ahead of the 2020 election.
I thank Ranking Member COLE for
giving me the opportunity to speak on
behalf of this important issue.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I always enjoy listening to my Re-
publican colleagues debate on the
floor. And I always love listening to
the gentleman from Illinois when he is
on the House floor.
But I can’t help but think of the fact
that the Russians attacked our elec-
tions in 2016. The 2 years after that, the
House was controlled by Republicans.
The Senate was controlled by Repub-
licans. Donald Trump, a Republican,
was in the White House. They had a
unified government; the House, the
Senate, and the Presidency.
And all of our intelligence agencies
said that Russia interfered in our elec-
tions; they attacked our democracy;
not only the Obama administration’s
intelligence officials, but the Trump
administration’s intelligence officials.
And what did my Republican friends
do in the aftermath of this attack on
our democracy by a foreign adversary?
Nothing. Nothing.
We hear all these great ideas, but
while they had a unified government,
while they were in control of every-
thing, they did nothing. In fact, I recall
sitting here on the House floor and lis-
tening to Republican after Republican
after Republican basically say that
this was much ado about nothing; in
fact, trying to deny that Russia at-
tacked our elections.
Now the evidence is so overwhelming
you can’t deny it anymore. But yet,
they had this opportunity. And now
they say we all want to protect our
elections.
Well, 2 years prior to this, I don’t
know where you were, but you weren’t
working trying to protect our elec-
tions. People were working, instead, to
try to cover up for what a foreign ad-
versary did to our elections.
So here we are, coming forward with
a bill that we believe will provide secu-
rity for our elections so that people be-
lieve that the elections have integrity,
they believe the results. And we are
told well, we disagree with you, and we
have better ideas; on and on and on.
Bottom line is we are acting. My
friends had 2 years to act. They did
nothing.
Our Democratic majority went
through regular order on this. The
Committee on House Administration
held three hearings on election secu-
rity. In case anyone forgot, they were
on February 14, May 8, and May 21.
In addition to those hearings, the
Subcommittee on Elections conducted
field hearings in six States, while the
Committees on Oversight, Homeland
Security, and the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence held hear-
ings on the subject.
So experts testified. People offered
their viewpoints. And after all of that,
the House Administration Committee
marked up this bill last Friday, on
June 21, and here we are on the House
floor.
So, I mean, give me a break. I get it.
Some of my Republicans friends may
be ‘‘Johnny-come-latelies’’ when it
comes to the issue of election security.
We welcome you on board, because our
elections are important, and we need to
protect them from interference from
foreign adversaries like Russia.
But you had 2 years of unified gov-
ernment in which my friends did noth-
ing, nothing.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, to quote
my friend, ‘‘give me a break.’’ The last
Republican Congress appropriated
roughly $300 million for election secu-
rity, point 1.
Point 2, we have no evidence anybody
hacked any election machines, as my
friend, Mr. DAVIS pointed out in 2016 or
2018. If you want to respond to the Rus-
sians, you probably ought to respond to
what they did, not to what they didn’t
do or didn’t succeed in doing.
I would actually argue this adminis-
tration did a lot more than the last ad-
ministration. You have got a larger
military today, partly because of what
the Russians did. You have a reinvigo-
rated NATO today. You have a Presi-
dent who actually sent lethal aid to
Ukraine today.
You want to get the Russians’ atten-
tion? That is the way you get it. When
you lay down a red line in Syria, you
enforce the red line. This administra-
tion has been a lot tougher on Russia
than the last administration, which, by
the way, knew this was going on, did
almost nothing to alert anybody or to
stop anybody; and now, are trying to
blame it on the person that was actu-
ally involved in the election, our cur-
rent President, for their lapse when
they were actually in power in the ex-
ecutive branch.
So this idea that nobody wants to de-
fend our elections is not true. And,
frankly, I will take some offense be-
cause I have never said that the Rus-
sians didn’t matter, or that our elec-
tions weren’t serious or weren’t threat-
ened. I used to be a State election
board secretary. I used to sit on the
Board of Directors for the election
board secretaries around the country,
and the oldest public body that there
is, or the oldest association of public
officials there is in this country; very
bipartisan, by the way, extraordinarily
well-run. They don’t agree with this
bill.
I would just ask every Member to
call their local Secretary of State or
election administrator, whatever they
have, and go through the bill and say,
did you want to cede this much author-
ity to the Congress of the United
States; or do you think you do a pretty
good job of running your own election?
b 1300
I know in my State, we do a very
good job of running our elections, and
that has been true under Democrats
and true under Republicans. I think
that is true around the country.
The other thing is if you want to ac-
tually do something before the 2020
election, then whether you like it or
not, you are going to have to do some-
thing that is bipartisan, because this
will not get through the Senate and
this will not become law, and that
makes it a rather pointless exercise.
Sometimes in the legislative process,
you sit down, and in Mr. DAVIS, I will
tell you, you have a willing partner
and a person who has a reputation in
this body that I think is exceptionally
bipartisan and who is working, I think,
in good faith on this very problem, and
you work through the problem.
But if it is going to be a partisan my-
way-or-the-highway approach—remem-
ber, this is coming under a closed rule,
there is not even an amendment made
in order here—then it is not likely to
get out of this Chamber.
So if you are serious about trying to
protect the elections, you would. You
may not get everything you want, but
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.033 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5096 June 25, 2019
in divided government, you have to
work together to get things done.
That is the problem with almost
every major initiative that our Demo-
cratic friends have brought to the floor
since they have been in the majority.
Sorry. The Constitution is pretty
clear. The Senate gets to decide wheth-
er or not they are going to accept what
we do over here or do something dif-
ferent. The President has a part in this
process.
We had to endure this when we first
became the majority. We had a Repub-
lican House, we had a Democratic Sen-
ate, we had a Democratic President.
I don’t have any problem with my
friends bringing their agenda to the
floor. I applaud them for doing it. They
ran on it. It is perfectly appropriate.
A lot of times we bring that agenda
to the floor knowing we can get it
across this Chamber, but we are not
going to probably get it all the way
through the process unless we change
it some.
What we haven’t seen yet is any evi-
dence that the new majority has any
ability to work with the current major-
ity or the current President. And if
that is what they want to do for 18
months, score political points as op-
posed to actually legislate something
in a compromise manner, they are free
to do that, too, but it is not going to
work.
If the aim here is to make our elec-
tions more secure, then I wouldn’t
bring a bill with a closed rule. I would
work with the other side, knowing that
their very concerns are probably going
to be similar to the concerns expressed
in the United States Senate and by the
President of the United States.
So, you know, that is an unsolicited
piece of personal and political advice
to my friends, but I think if they fol-
low it, they will actually have some
success legislatively and will actually
get some things done.
We are going to disagree about a lot
of things. The American people will
sort that out in rather short order,
about 18 months, but we ought to try
to get the things we can do today done.
This is an area I think we could work
together in if we approached it in a dif-
ferent manner.
I would also hope we could do the
same thing on the southern border,
Madam Speaker. That is an impending
emergency right now. We are going to
run out of money right now. So let’s
get that at least taken care of while we
sort out our differences in other areas.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, the gentleman was
talking about appropriations that were
approved in the last Congress.
A lot of the ideas that we are talking
about here today, including some of
the ideas that Mr. DAVIS raised, are au-
thorizations, and so they can’t be
taken care of in an appropriations bill,
and that is why we are doing a separate
bill in addition to the appropriations
bill.
The gentleman talks about the $300
million that were approved under the
previous leadership. Well, we are ask-
ing for $600 million. We are doubling
that because we know how serious it is.
And just forgive us if we are a little
bit concerned, because we have a Presi-
dent who continues not to acknowledge
that the Russians interfered in our
election. He continues to refer it to as
a Russian hoax. He took Vladimir
Putin’s word for it rather than the
word of our intelligence agencies.
So when we express concern about
our election process and about the lack
of attention given to this, we are re-
sponding to what the President of the
United States, Donald Trump, says on
a weekly, if not daily basis.
The fact of the matter is Russia
interfered in our election. Everybody
knows that. The only person who is in
denial is at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
So we need to respond, and we need to
respond appropriately.
Madam Speaker, I say this to my
friend again, that we expect, hopefully
today, to bring up a supplemental ap-
propriations bill to be able to deal with
what I would call the Donald Trump-
created crisis on the border.
And, by the way, as we provide fund-
ing, which I believe we will do to deal
with some of the issues on the border,
let us be clear: there is absolutely no
excuse at all for how this administra-
tion has allowed children to be treated
in such an inhumane fashion under our
custody, children being denied soap,
children being denied toothpaste or
toothbrushes, children so young and
separated from any adult who are being
cared for by children only a couple of
years older.
I mean, everybody should be horrified
by that. There is no excuse, none at all,
for that to be happening.
Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to
the gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
RASKIN).
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I want
to thank the chairman, Mr. MCGOVERN,
for his extraordinary leadership on
H.R. 2722, the Securing America’s Fed-
eral Elections Act, the SAFE Act.
Madam Speaker, we were attacked as
a country in 2016. We were not at-
tacked as Democrats or Republicans or
Independents. Our Nation was at-
tacked.
Special Counsel Mueller found that
Russia conducted a sweeping and sys-
tematic campaign to subvert and un-
dermine the U.S. election on behalf of
one party and one candidate as opposed
to another party or another candidate,
but you know what, that should make
no difference to us today. It could have
been the reverse.
I would hope that all of us would be
standing together as Americans to re-
ject foreign interference in our elec-
tions.
What did the Russians do? Well, they
conducted cyber surveillance and espi-
onage and sabotage at the Democratic
National Committee, at the Demo-
cratic National Campaign Committee,
and at Hillary Clinton’s headquarters.
They injected racial and ethnic propa-
ganda and poison into our body politic
through Facebook, through Twitter,
through social media, and then they di-
rectly entered into the websites of 30
different State boards of election
across the country, with varying de-
grees of success, according to how well
prepared the different election boards
were.
Now, in response to all of this, what
do we get from the President of the
United States, the Commander in Chief
of the Armed Forces? What we get is
denunciation of what he calls the Rus-
sian hoax. He rejects the evidence of-
fered to him by his own intelligence
agencies and leaders. He rejects all of
the evidence compiled by Special Coun-
sel Robert Mueller. He rejects the con-
clusion that there was a sweeping and
systematic effort to undermine our
election.
H.R. 2722 says we need to protect our
election in 2020. It is precious. Our de-
mocracy is precious to us, so we will
promote accuracy, integrity, and secu-
rity through voter-verified permanent
paper ballots, and provide grants to the
States to carry out the security im-
provements that we need. It will estab-
lish cybersecurity requirements for
voting systems and require testing of
the existing hardware and software to
make sure there is not malware in
there, to make sure that it is not being
manipulated, and it will implement
risk-limiting audits to ensure the accu-
racy of vote tallies in an efficient man-
ner.
Madam Speaker, we have a philo-
sophical difference with our friends. It
is not just that the President denied
the existence of the attack, but the Re-
publican-controlled Senate did noth-
ing, they offered us no plan. They con-
trolled the House and the Senate in the
last Congress. They did nothing. They
offered us no plan for securing our elec-
tions against foreign attack in 2020,
which is why we have come forward
with an attempt to prevent the attack
in 2020.
Now, we have a philosophical dif-
ference with them, because when we
say that America needs to act, they
say federalism, let every State work it
out on their own.
I heard one of my colleagues say they
are doing a great job at the local level
running the elections. But we are not
talking about running the elections, we
are talking about protecting the secu-
rity of our elections against a foreign
attack.
It is like we are saying we need to de-
fend the country, and they say, well,
we have got great local police forces all
across the America. The police forces
may be great, but we still need a na-
tional defense.
The election boards might be doing a
good job in some places, maybe less so
in others, running the local elections,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.035 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5097
June 25, 2019
but we still need to protect all of our
elections against the foreign attack
that was described in detail by Special
Counsel Mueller.
There is a constitutional basis and
imperative for doing this. I direct my
friends to Article IV of the Constitu-
tion, the Republican Guarantee Clause,
which my good friend from Illinois sug-
gested may have been the Republican
Party guarantee clause. I know he was
kidding when he said it. It is not the
Republican Party guarantee clause; it
is a guarantee of a republican form of
government.
‘‘The United States shall guarantee
to every State in this Union a repub-
lican form of government, and shall
protect each of them against inva-
sion’’.
That is a constitutional command
that we must protect every State in
the union’s republican form of govern-
ment.
Well, what is a republican form of
government? A republican form of gov-
ernment is a representative form of
government where the voters vote for
their leaders. It is republican only if
the will of the people is properly ex-
pressed through an election, we get the
will through an election, and it has in-
tegrity and accuracy and safety. That
is what this bill is about.
Madam Speaker, I urge everybody to
support H.R. 2722.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume to
make a quick point, and then I want to
move to my friend from Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I don’t argue about
constitutional power, but I argue about
process.
Look, I seriously doubt my friends
have spent very much time talking to
election board secretaries and election
administration officials around the
country. Had they done so, they would
have heard, I am sure, uniformly that
they don’t want a one-size-fits-all made
system from Washington, D.C. They
don’t want to throw away equipment
that they think is better than what we
are offering them or that they have al-
ready invested millions of dollars in.
They are happy to work with us.
They are happy to inform us and tes-
tify. That is not what is happening
here.
This is the idea: all wisdom is in this
Chamber, evidently, because it is not
going to get through the Senate, it is
not going to get signed by the Presi-
dent. We haven’t talked to the people
that actually are the front-line people
in defending us in this process, and
that is the folks at the State and the
local level.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS).
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I am always glad to
be here with my good friend from the
House Administration Committee, the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
RASKIN). And he was right in com-
mittee during the markup of this bill
that was posted late last week, and we
marked it up earlier this week after
the rules notice was already posted. It
just shows you how rushed this process
is.
The gentleman erroneously, and I
know, because I had made a quick joke
about it afterwards, mentioned we
ought to have a mandated republican
government or something like that. I
said, ‘‘You know what? That is one
mandate I can be for in our State and
local authorities,’’ but I knew what he
was talking about.
He knows what he is talking about
when it comes to what we all have the
same interest in doing, and that is pro-
tecting our election security.
My colleague mentioned about stand-
ing together. Well, we were trying to
stand together, Madam Speaker. We
were working in a bipartisan way to
put together a bipartisan election secu-
rity bill, and the Democrat majority
walked away. They forced this vote.
These are areas that we can come to-
gether and find common ground.
I have been asked, what did the Re-
publicans do when we were in the ma-
jority? Well, we not only did $300 mil-
lion in election security upgrades and
cybersecurity protections, we did $380
million. And what was great was we
were working over the last 2 years with
DHS officials and our local election of-
ficials to ensure that 2018 did not suffer
the same consequences as 2016. And it
worked, even in an extensively high
midterm turnout.
Then they said, well, what else did
you do over the 2 years? Well, you
know what we did? We waited for the
$35-million Mueller report to come out
and tell us what else we could do.
Now we are here today. We are here
today to ensure that we put together
an election security bill, not one that
the Democrats want, not one that is
going to be a top-down approach. It is
not what our local secretaries of state
want, it is not what our local election
officials want, and they are on the
ground. Let’s listen to them, but let’s
make sure that we don’t take away our
ability to address cybersecurity con-
cerns.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
b 1315
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
an additional 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Illinois.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. It
has been mentioned that the Russians
used social media to strike at our elec-
tion process in this country. That is
true. This bill does nothing to address
that problem. The majority’s bill does
absolutely nothing to address this
problem. That is something that we
still need to take care of in Congress.
Let’s not confuse the issue, and let’s
not listen to the 30,000-foot rhetoric
that somehow one party over the other
is more defensive or wants to be more
offensive against nefarious actors. We
are all Americans. We are all elected to
serve this great country and this great
institution.
None of us, Republicans or Demo-
crats, want anyone to attack this
country, let alone attack our election
process, but the answer to making sure
that our elections are safe are in our
bill, the previous question.
We are the ones who ensure that DHS
can talk to local election officials.
Their bill does not do that.
We are the ones that make sure that
we create a cybersecurity unit and the
ability to address ongoing threats.
Their bill does not do that.
That is why I would urge a ‘‘no’’ vote
on the previous question. Let’s come
back to the table. Let’s get something
done.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate the
gentleman trying to articulate the best
he can all that the Republicans did on
this issue when they were in the major-
ity, but I will be very honest with him:
I am unimpressed, and so are the
American people.
The bottom line is my friends had
unified government, Republican con-
trol of the House, Senate, and the
White House for 2 years, and basically
they did nothing.
The President, the leader of their
party, routinely and continues to do so
today, refers to Russian interference in
our election as a Russian hoax. The
leader of our country says that it is a
hoax.
So I understand why there was inac-
tion for the previous 2 years, but that
ends because Democrats, Republicans,
Independents, people of all political
persuasions deserve to have an election
system that has some integrity.
I look forward to passing this bill,
and I am urging the Senate to do the
same.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, could I
inquire, I am prepared to close when-
ever my friend is. If he has additional
speakers, I will just reserve.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
am prepared to close.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I would like to
begin by just submitting for the
RECORD the views of the National Dis-
ability Rights Network, which actually
came out against this legislation be-
cause they believe it will make it more
difficult for people with physical im-
pairments to actually get to the polls
and vote. I know that is not the inten-
tion of my friend on the other side, but
that is the effect of one-size-fits-all
voting.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.036 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5098 June 25, 2019
NATIONAL DISABILITY
RIGHTS NETWORK,
June 25, 2019.
Hon. ZOE LOFGREN,
Chairwoman, House Administration Committee,
Washington, DC.
Hon. RODNEY DAVIS,
Ranking Member, House Administration Com-
mittee, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN LOFGREN AND RANKING
MEMBER DAVIS: The National Disability
Rights Network (NDRN) writes today to ex-
press our concerns with the impact of H.R.
2722, the Securing America’s Federal Elec-
tion (SAFE) Act, on voters with disabilities.
While improvements have been made to the
legislation as it has moved through the legis-
lative process, we continue to remain con-
cerned that, taken as a whole, the bill will
negatively impact voters with disabilities.
NDRN is the voluntary membership asso-
ciation for Protection and Advocacy
(P&A) and Client Assistance Program
(CAP) agencies. The P&A and CAP agen-
cies are a nationwide network of congres-
sionally mandated, cross disability organiza-
tions operating in every state in the United
States, the District of Columbia, Puerto
Rico, and the U.S. Territories (American
Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands,
and the US Virgin Islands). There is also a
P&A and CAP affiliated with the Native
American Consortium which includes the
Hopi, Navajo, and San Juan Southern Paiute
Nations located in the Four Corners region
of the Southwest.
The P&A/CAP Network has the authority
to provide legally based advocacy services
and legal representation to all people with
disabilities. P&As and CAPs pursue legal, ad-
ministrative, and other appropriate remedies
under all applicable federal and state laws to
protect and advocate for the rights of people
with disabilities. Through the Protection
and Advocacy for Voter Access (PAVA) pro-
gram, P&As provide advocacy to voters with
disabilities on all facets of the election sys-
tem. Collectively, the P&A/CAP Network is
the largest provider of legally based advo-
cacy services to people with disabilities in
the United States.
Following a contentious presidential elec-
tion and investigation into foreign inter-
ference with the electoral process, the na-
tional public discourse on American democ-
racy has understandably turned to voting se-
curity. NDRN believes that action to protect
the security of our votes is necessary to en-
sure the health of our electoral system. How-
ever, the need to create accurate and secure
elections must be balanced with protecting
access to the vote for all eligible Americans.
Voting systems that rely on an electorate
capable of independently marking and
verifying a paper ballot have become a pre-
ferred solution to protecting vote security.
Understandably, if all voters are able to
mark their ballots privately and independ-
ently, and visually verify that the completed
paper ballot is correct, elections officials
could routinely audit election results that
are verified to have captured voter intent.
Yet, the ability to privately and independ-
ently mark, and visually verify, and then
cast a paper ballot is simply not an option
for all voters.
We have three concerns with the latest
version of the SAFE Act. First, by man-
dating that only voters with disabilities can
use ballot marking devices (BMDs) you are
segregating voters with disabilities away
from the entire pool of voters by making
them the only group of people that use a par-
ticular type of voting machine. Federally
mandated segregation is problematic alone.
Additionally, this increases the likelihood
that poll workers will not be properly
trained on the machine, the machine not
working, and if the one machine breaks,
there will be no alternative option. It will
also saddle poll workers with determining
who is ‘‘disabled enough’’ to use the BMD, a
decision for which they have no qualifica-
tions or legal right.
Second, by not requiring that the ballot
marked with a BMD be identical to the hand
marked ballot, you are removing the right of
the voter with a disability to cast a private
ballot. It is possible that some smaller pre-
cincts may only have one person with a dis-
ability that votes, making it extremely easy
to identify how the person voted. But even
where there might be tens or hundreds of
people with disabilities voting, elections per-
sonnel should not be able to look at the bal-
lots and know how people with disabilities
voted.
Third, assuming BMDs fully solved the ac-
cessibility issues around marking a ballot
(which they do not for all voters with a dis-
ability) the so called solution continues to
ignore the accessibility issues around
verification and the casting of the ballot,
two necessary steps in the voting process.
While some may argue that the BMDs ad-
dress accessibility, there is nothing that ad-
dresses the ability of a person with a dis-
ability to independently and privately verify
and ultimately cast their ballot. BMDs are
not the accessibility panacea that makes
federally mandated paper based voting work
for people with disabilities.
Security of our elections is an issue that is
crucial to the health of our democracy and
must not be taken lightly. Likewise, a pri-
vate and independent vote is the law of the
land, and an electoral system that know-
ingly denies the right to vote to any of its el-
igible citizens to appease others is simply
not a democracy. NDRN firmly believes that
all Americans, including people with disabil-
ities, want secure, accurate, and fair elec-
tions, but not at the expense of the right to
vote for people with disabilities. The SAFE
Act is an important first step in this na-
tional discourse, but the concerns expressed
above must be addressed before this legisla-
tion can become the law of the land.
Thank you for your work on this impor-
tant topic, and should you have any ques-
tions, please do not hesitate to contact Eric
Buehlmann, Deputy Executive Director for
Public Policy.
Sincerely,
CURT DECKER,
Executive Director.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, my
friend is not impressed, and that is a
fair statement, and I don’t question my
friend ever, but I am not impressed
with legislation that can’t become law
because it is futile. We come down here
with a lot of sound and fury, but we
don’t get anything done.
Madam Speaker, in closing, I urge
opposition to this rule. This rule will
make in order for consideration two
bills: H.R. 3351 and H.R. 2722.
The first is a partisan appropriations
bill that is marked to an unrealistic
number that does not reflect agree-
ment with Republicans or the Senate
and that includes partisan policy riders
that must come out before this bill can
become law.
Not to be outdone, H.R. 2722 is even
more partisan, throwing out the tradi-
tional ability of States and localities
to manage their own election proce-
dures and, instead, imposing a one-size-
fits-all regulatory regime direct from
Washington, D.C. like H.R. 1 before it,
this bill was produced without Repub-
lican input and, instead, reflects only
the partisan motivations of the current
majority.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on the previous
question, ‘‘no’’ on the rule, and ‘‘no’’
on the underlying measures.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I urge, obviously,
support for this rule and the under-
lying bills that will be debated.
As we are sitting here debating, we
just got some news that Acting Com-
missioner of Customs and Border Pro-
tection Agency John Sanders has sub-
mitted his resignation. I guess the pub-
lic pressure is so great that it is unten-
able for him to continue in that posi-
tion, and I am sure the President will
replace him with somebody else.
The problem is the President keeps
on replacing individuals with people
who continue to enforce policies that
are cruel, policies that separate chil-
dren from their parents at the border,
and policies that treat children worse
than animals in our custody, but I
thought it would be interesting for my
colleagues to note this breaking news.
Madam Speaker, it is true that we
have an ambitious agenda before us
this week, and we believe in doing our
job and holding the administration ac-
countable. We aren’t going to leave the
threat of another shutdown for another
day. Maybe that is what my Repub-
lican friends did when they were in
charge, but that is how we ended up in
one shutdown after another.
And, yes, we wish we had an agree-
ment on the caps, but it is not for lack
of trying. We have been trying to nego-
tiate with the Senate since we took
control of the House of Representa-
tives. We have been trying to negotiate
with the President since we took con-
trol of the House of Representatives.
But every time we sit down with the
President, he has a temper tantrum or
he behaves in an erratic way and leaves
the room. We can’t wait, so we are
going to lead, and hopefully they will
follow.
And we are not going to ignore the
threats posed by Russia and others to
our elections. The President wants to
cozy up to Putin instead of defending
this Nation, but this majority doesn’t
believe in prioritizing the egos of dic-
tators. We believe in accountability
and restoring the integrity of the vote.
My friend says, well, this isn’t going
anywhere. Well, look, we are happy to
negotiate with Republicans in the Sen-
ate, but where is their bill? Basically,
the Republicans in the Senate are fol-
lowing the lead of the Republicans in
the House and the previous Congress in
doing nothing.
We don’t believe in doing nothing. We
think our elections are important, that
they are worth defending, so we are
acting. These are serious matters,
Madam Speaker, and this is why we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.006 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5099
June 25, 2019
were sent here, and this is what we in-
tend to tackle.
I urge all my colleagues to vote
‘‘yes’’ on the previous question. I urge
them to vote ‘‘yes’’ on the rule and the
underlying legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
The text of the material previously
referred to by Mr. COLE is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 460
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 8. That immediately upon adoption of
this resolution, the House shall resolve into
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3412) to protect the administration
of Federal elections against cybersecurity
threats. The first reading of the bill shall be
dispensed with. All points of order against
consideration of the bill are waived. General
debate shall be confined to the bill and shall
not exceed one hour equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on House Admin-
istration. After general debate the bill shall
be considered for amendment under the five-
minute rule. All points of order against pro-
visions in the bill are waived. When the com-
mittee rises and reports the bill back to the
House with a recommendation that the bill
do pass, the previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill and amend-
ments thereto to final passage without inter-
vening motion except one motion to recom-
mit with or without instructions. If the
Committee of the Whole rises and reports
that it has come to no resolution on the bill,
then on the next legislative day the House
shall, immediately after the third daily
order of business under clause 1 of rule XIV,
resolve into the Committee of the Whole for
further consideration of the bill.
SEC. 9. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of H.R. 3412.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time, and
I move the previous question on the
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess for a pe-
riod of less than 15 minutes.
Accordingly (at 1 o’clock and 23 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1330
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. TITUS) at 1 o’clock and 30
minutes p.m.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Ordering the previous question on
House Resolution 460; and
Adoption of House Resolution 460, if
ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 2722, SECURING AMER-
ICA’S FEDERAL ELECTIONS ACT;
WAIVING A REQUIREMENT OF
CLAUSE 6(a) OF RULE XIII WITH
RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF
CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS RE-
PORTED FROM THE COMMITTEE
ON RULES; AND PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3351, FI-
NANCIAL SERVICES AND GEN-
ERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on ordering
the previous question on the resolution
(H. Res. 460) providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 2722) to protect
elections for public office by providing
financial support and enhanced secu-
rity for the infrastructure used to
carry out such elections, and for other
purposes; waiving a requirement of
clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to
consideration of certain resolutions re-
ported from the Committee on Rules;
and providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3351) making appropriations
for financial services and general gov-
ernment for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes,
on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 228, nays
188, not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 403]
YEAS—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—188
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.039 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5100 June 25, 2019
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—16
Abraham
Biggs
Cloud
Clyburn
Gabbard
Gohmert
Hice (GA)
Lucas
Meadows
Meeks
Moulton
Rooney (FL)
Roy
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
b 1357
Mr. KATKO changed his vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. PASCRELL changed his vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 225, nays
190, not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 404]
YEAS—225
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—190
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garamendi
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—17
Abraham
Biggs
Cloud
Clyburn
Gabbard
Gohmert
Hice (GA)
Lucas
Meadows
Meeks
Moulton
Rooney (FL)
Roy
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
Tonko
b 1407
Ms. WATERS changed her vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 404.
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AND RELATED AGENCIES APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 445 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 3055.
Will the gentleman from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MCGOVERN) kindly take the
chair.
b 1409
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
3055) making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes, with Mr.
MCGOVERN (Acting Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
Mr. MCGOVERN. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose on Monday,
June 24, 2019, amendment No. 244 print-
ed in House Report 116–119 offered by
the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) had been disposed of.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
119 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 251 by Mr. BANKS of
Indiana.
Amendment No. 268 by Ms. JAYAPAL
of Washington.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the time for any electronic vote in this
series.
AMENDMENT NO. 251 OFFERED BY MR. BANKS
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.007 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5101
June 25, 2019
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. BANKS)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 131, noes 287,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 405]
AYES—131
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gibbs
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Timmons
Tipton
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wittman
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
NOES—287
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Baird
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Radewagen
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—20
Abraham
Bass
Biggs
Cloud
Clyburn
Gabbard
Gohmert
González-Colón
(PR)
Hice (GA)
Lucas
Meadows
Meeks
Moulton
Rooney (FL)
Roy
Ryan
San Nicolas
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thornberry
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1413
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 405.
AMENDMENT NO. 268 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 294, noes 127,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 406]
AYES—294
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Axne
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.046 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5102 June 25, 2019
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Woodall
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOES—127
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Barr
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Higgins (LA)
Holding
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
Meadows
Meuser
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Radewagen
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Timmons
Walberg
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Wright
Yoho
Young
NOT VOTING—17
Abraham
Biggs
Cloud
Clyburn
Espaillat
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Hice (GA)
Lucas
Meeks
Moulton
Rooney (FL)
Roy
Ryan
San Nicolas
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1418
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Chair, on June 25,
2019, I was absent for recorded vote No. 406.
Had I been present, I would have voted yea.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Chair, I was at the White
House. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 403, ’’nay’’ on roll-
call No. 404, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 405, and
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 406.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. ROY. Mr. Chair, I was unavoidably de-
tained. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 403, ‘‘nay’’ on roll-
call No. 404, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 405, and
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 406.
The Acting CHAIR. There being no
further amendments, under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana) having assumed the
chair, Mr. MCGOVERN, Acting Chair of
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under con-
sideration the bill (H.R. 3055) making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes, and pursuant to House
Resolution 445, he reported the bill, as
amended by that resolution, back to
the House with sundry further amend-
ments adopted in the Committee of the
Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Pursuant to House Resolution 445,
the question on adoption of the further
amendments will be put en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. HURD of Texas. I am in its cur-
rent form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Hurd of Texas moves to recommit the
bill H.R. 3055 to the Committee on Appro-
priations with instructions to report the
same back to the House forthwith with the
following amendment:
Page 7, line 12, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(reduced by $75,000,000)’’.
Page 25, line 7, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $75,000,000)’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman is recog-
nized for 5 minutes in support of his
motion.
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, my
colleagues know I am the only Repub-
lican on the border. My colleagues
know I am the only Member of Con-
gress who has 820 miles along the bor-
der. My colleagues know that I have
spent a good deal of my time up here
working with them on things like stop-
ping the separation of families along
the border. My colleagues also know
that I know that some Members are
not for open borders.
It is an understatement to say that
our Nation’s immigration docket is a
matter of concern. The caseload has in-
creased by nearly fivefold since the end
of 2008, and now it stands at roughly
9,000 cases. The average wait for non-
detained individuals is over 670 days,
with many individuals waiting much
longer for an immigration hearing. The
net effect of this untenable backlog sit-
uation is to delay justice, in many
cases, for years for those with valid
claims. This is simply outrageous.
The adjudication of immigration
matters is essential to the proper ad-
ministration of justice in our country.
Congress must ensure that U.S. immi-
gration laws are administered fairly,
efficiently, and consistently with due
process.
This motion adds $75 million to our
immigration court system. It will sup-
port additional immigration judge
teams and the expansion of courtroom
capacity.
Now, some of my colleagues will say
that there are already judges in this
bill. There are. They meet the requests
of, actually, this White House, but that
is not enough.
In 2016, the ACLU came out and said
that to get to the backlog there, to ad-
dress the backlog then, which was only
500,000, we needed 500 immigration
judge teams. We need more.
Many Members have already voted
for more than this when they all helped
me jam Republican leadership last
year—or try to jam Republican leader-
ship last year—on sorting out the im-
migration issue.
Now, some of my colleagues will say
that taking money away from Census
to do that is not the right way to go.
This underlying bill funds the Census
40 percent above the President’s re-
quest. That is more than $2.3 billion.
This bill includes $8 billion, with or
without this amendment.
Most importantly, this motion to re-
commit does not address or change the
question that my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle have addressed
in this bill, and that is whether or not
the citizenship question can be added
on the 2020 Census. This bill says it
cannot. This motion to recommit does
not change that.
Let me repeat. This motion to recom-
mit does not change that.
We are taking money out of the Cen-
sus reserve slush fund. This is money
that may or may not be used. We can
hold on to this funding for unforeseen
problems, or we can use this funding
now to help solve a problem we see
loud and clear.
Our current shortage of immigration
judges delays justice for individuals
who have valid immigration claims,
while preserving many years of contin-
ued illegal presence for others who do
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.012 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5103
June 25, 2019
not. Worse still, the allure of our weak-
ened system entices migrants to under-
take the incredibly dangerous journey
north with young children.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
this motion to help reverse these re-
grettable and unsustainable trends
caused by our broken immigration sys-
tem, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. AGUILAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to the motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from California is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mr. AGUILAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to the motion.
With the approach of the 2020 Census,
the U.S. Census Bureau needs a strong
infusion of resources to ensure a thor-
ough and accurate count.
As a member of the Appropriations
Committee, my colleague knows that
the funding level provided for the Cen-
sus Bureau in this bill is more in line
with recent revised budget costs and
estimates. This bill also supports crit-
ical funding of the Bureau as it em-
barks on the most technologically ad-
vanced Census in its history, including
$1 billion in infrastructure that in-
cludes IT funding to enhance the Bu-
reau’s cybersecurity efforts and protect
respondents’ personal data and infor-
mation submitted to the Bureau. Every
dollar can be tied to an original plan, a
cost estimate, or a recommendation
submitted by the department.
There appears to be a growing attack
on the Census out of fear of a demo-
graphically changing country and a
concerning effort by the other side to
skew the results in their favor.
We need every dollar in this Census
because the administration is fear-
mongering, because they are trying to
force an undercount with the inclusion
of the citizenship question, and, in re-
ality, we are recommending a funding
level consistent with what they indi-
cated they need for a fair and accurate
count.
Any proposal to decrease this
amount increases the risk of under-
counts of minority and hard-to-count
communities, including rural parts of
this country that lack broadband serv-
ices.
b 1430
Such an undercount would cause
these areas to lose out on political rep-
resentation and Federal funding.
Reduced funding for the Census also
increases the risk of cyber intrusions
and the release of protected personal
data.
This bill already provides a strong in-
crease for immigration judges, as the
gentleman mentioned, consistent with
the administration’s request, an in-
crease of over $110 million over the fis-
cal year 2019 level that provides for an
additional 100 judge teams, which my
colleague acknowledged in his re-
marks.
I am not aware of a Census slush
fund, but I am aware that these are
vital resources that will help count our
communities, help ensure that this is
done fairly, and help ensure that hard-
to-count communities are counted.
The Justice Department is not able
to hire any faster than that, as the
gentleman acknowledged.
Mr. Speaker, I urge rejection of this
motion. I urge my colleagues to vote
‘‘no,’’ and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by a 5-minute vote
on passage of the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 201, noes 220,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 407]
AYES—201
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—220
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—11
Abraham
Cheney
Clyburn
Gabbard
Lucas
Meeks
Moulton
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.051 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5104 June 25, 2019
b 1437
Mr. CARSON of Indiana changed his
vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi). The question
is on the passage of the bill.
Pursuant to clause 10 of rule XX, the
yeas and nays are ordered.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 227, nays
194, not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 408]
YEAS—227
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—194
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—11
Abraham
Cheney
Clyburn
Gabbard
Lucas
Meeks
Moulton
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
b 1448
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
AUTHORIZING THE CLERK TO
MAKE CORRECTIONS IN EN-
GROSSMENT OF H.R. 3055, COM-
MERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND
RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2020
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that in the engross-
ment of H.R. 3055, the Clerk be author-
ized to make technical and conforming
changes to reflect the actions of the
House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
f
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GEN-
ERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2020
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 3351.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 460 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 3351.
The Chair appoints the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. KEATING) to
preside over the Committee of the
Whole.
b 1451
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3351)
making appropriations for financial
services and general government for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes, with Mr.
KEATING in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall be confined to the
bill and shall not exceed 1 hour equally
divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations.
The gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
QUIGLEY) and the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. GRAVES) each will control
30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
As chairman of the Financial Serv-
ices and General Government Sub-
committee, I first want to thank Rank-
ing Member TOM GRAVES, the gen-
tleman from Georgia, who I now have
had the privilege of working with for a
third year managing the bill. Our dis-
cussions have always been both valu-
able and productive, and I thank him
for his partnership throughout this
process.
Of course, I always like to take the
opportunity to thank the staff on both
sides for all the hard work that goes on
behind the scenes. In my personal of-
fice, that includes Doug and Juan. On
our committee staff on the majority
side, that includes Laura, Marybeth,
Elliot, Aalok, Parker, and Lisa, and for
the minority, John Martens.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.054 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5105
June 25, 2019
The committee staff, in particular,
sacrificed many long nights and week-
ends to get us to this stage. I am truly
grateful, and I know Members on both
sides share the same sentiment.
The bill before us today provides
$24.95 billion in total discretionary re-
sources, including $400 million in ad-
justments for tax enforcement program
integrity activities.
The FSGG bill encompasses a wide
range of programs, everything from the
Internal Revenue Service to the Fed-
eral courts to the District of Columbia
to the Small Business Administration.
In total, the bill includes $12 billion
for the IRS, an increase of more than 6
percent above the President’s request,
a good first step toward restoring cuts
this agency has suffered for almost a
decade.
Notably, the bill almost doubles the
amount provided in FY19 to the sys-
tems modernization account to support
the IRS IT modernization efforts.
Investing in the IRS will support
more effective and efficient enforce-
ment activities to help close the tax
gap, improve taxpayer experience by
reducing wait times, and increase sup-
port to those trying to navigate the
complex Tax Code.
My friend across the aisle speaks a
lot about deficit reduction, and as a fis-
cal moderate, I understand and agree.
But underfunding tax enforcement for
all these years has been penny-wise and
pound-foolish. The IRS generates $4 in
revenue for every $1 in enforcement ex-
penses. That is fiscally sound policy
that we should all support.
On the national security front, the
bill also provides increases totaling
$15.6 million for Treasury Department
offices and programs focused on com-
bating money laundering, enforcing
sanctions, and countering the financ-
ing of terrorism.
The bill includes funding for numer-
ous important independent agencies
critical to the operation of the entire
Federal Government, as well as com-
munities throughout the country.
Let me highlight just a few of the
many investments provided in this bill.
One of the top priorities this year has
been to help States and local govern-
ments meet the challenge of restoring
the security and integrity of our elec-
tions. To this end, the bill includes $600
million in funding the Election Assist-
ance Commission.
Just last month, Special Counsel
Robert Mueller described Russia’s con-
certed attack on our political system
in 2016, saying, ‘‘There were multiple,
systematic efforts to interfere in our
election.’’ He detailed the Russian ef-
forts and specified that they were de-
signed and timed to interfere with and
damage a Presidential candidate.
It was a purposeful strategy involv-
ing sophisticated cyber techniques to
influence the outcome of our election,
the underpinning of American democ-
racy whereby American citizens alone
decide who represents them in govern-
ment.
Mr. Mueller concluded with a call to
action, that the efforts to interfere in
our election ‘‘deserve the attention of
every American.’’
I couldn’t agree more. This is not a
partisan matter. If anything, the chal-
lenge of securing our election systems
should unite all Americans.
Another major priority in this bill
has been to support the regulatory
agencies funded in this bill, especially
the financial regulatory agencies that
protect consumers, taxpayers, and in-
vestors, and to help police Wall Street
and prevent another financial melt-
down.
We boost funding for the Securities
and Exchange Commission by $148 mil-
lion above 2019, $104 million above the
budget request.
We also provide increases for the
Federal Trade Commission to help
refocus on preventing anticompetitive
practices and for various inspector gen-
eral offices that deal with financial
matters.
We give an $8.5 million increase to
the Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion to better protect our families from
potentially dangerous products.
The bill also makes targeted invest-
ments to make sure that small busi-
nesses on Main Street and low-income
communities in too-often forgotten
neighborhoods, both urban and rural,
have access to the capital and assist-
ance needed to thrive.
For instance, this bill increases en-
trepreneurial development programs at
the Small Business Administration by
$34 million above 2019, to $280 million.
Just as significant, this bill rejects
the President’s proposal to eliminate
grant programs under the Community
Development Financial Institutions
Fund, which directly supports the ex-
pansion of affordable housing, small
business creation, and infrastructure
growth in underserved and rural areas,
in addition to supplying credit to revi-
talize neglected communities. Instead,
the bill boosts funding by $50 million
for this extremely successful and
broadly bipartisan program.
Ultimately, I am a capitalist who be-
lieves in the power of the free market
economy. But I also believe there needs
to be reasonable measures and checks
in place to make sure our economy is
benefiting everyone and not just a se-
lect few at the top.
If you believe, as I do, that fraudsters
shouldn’t be able to manipulate mar-
kets and scam seniors of their hard-
earned savings, and that you shouldn’t
have to be a Fortune 500 company to
access affordable financing for your
business, then you should support the
investments this bill makes to em-
power everyday investors, consumers,
and entrepreneurs.
Finally, the bill takes significant
steps toward reducing undue congres-
sional interference in local D.C. affairs
and eliminating restrictions on the
District that do not apply to other
parts of the Nation.
Importantly, it ended the uniquely
restrictive prohibition on the use of lo-
cally raised funds for abortion, thereby
placing the District in the same posi-
tion as the 50 States, in that regard.
It also discontinues the ban on Fed-
eral funds for local needle exchange
programs and allows the District to
implement local law legalizing mari-
juana, as has been done in most States.
In closing, I would like to reiterate
how grateful I am to all the staff who
helped put this product together. It is
a bill that we all can be proud of, and
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting this legislation.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1500
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise today to express some concerns
and opposition to the current bill be-
fore us, the Financial Services and
General Government appropriations
bill.
First, before I get into some of the
highlights of our opposition, I have
been through this process before last
year as chairman of this sub-
committee, so I truly understand and
am aware of the hard work that Mr.
QUIGLEY and his team have put into
this bill, and I commend them for navi-
gating a process that is not easy and
making it to this point that we are
here today.
Now, while I don’t support every
piece of this bill, I certainly value the
approach that Chairman QUIGLEY took
and the strong working relationship
that he and I have both had over the
years and continue to have.
The bill we are addressing includes, I
will say, a few key priorities that have
been really important to my Repub-
lican colleagues and myself, and we ap-
preciate that and look forward to sup-
porting those in the future. And it does
strike a bit of a bipartisan tone in a
way that I know that we all appreciate,
and our constituents value the most,
and, quite frankly, we could use a little
bit more of that around here. And I
know you would agree with that, Mr.
Chairman.
Now, while this is a really good start-
ing point, and that is how I will char-
acterize where we are today, we are at
a starting point, a small foundation
that we can build from, the bill, as
drafted, is just not something that I
can support at this time, nor my Re-
publican colleagues, but I would like to
highlight some of the areas that I
think we need to work on.
First and foremost, if we were to
have a budget agreement—and that is a
big if, because there is a lot of discus-
sion about budget agreements, but
there has certainly not been any move-
ment, and that is one of the bigger
problems the new majority has, is navi-
gating the budget process, seeing how a
budget hasn’t even been passed out of
committee.
This bill will continue the spending
that our Nation has seen at a sky-
rocketing fashion, one that we just
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.057 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5106 June 25, 2019
don’t need to accept. The total level of
discretionary spending under this bill
increases by 8 percent over last year.
That is a significant number. Last
year, when I was chair, we were pro-
posing cutting this bill by 5 percent,
and this year we are 13 points different,
going up 8 percent, which is nearly a $2
billion increase.
Secondly, this bill blocks the admin-
istration from doing what they are so
focused on right now, and that is secur-
ing this Nation and our country, par-
ticularly at the southern border. I am
sure we will hear later this week if the
new majority gets the votes to bring a
bill to the floor about a border supple-
mental, but you have to ask yourself,
why do we even need that supple-
mental?
We had an opportunity earlier this
year with the conference committee re-
port to provide the funds the adminis-
tration requested, and yet the new ma-
jority rejected that then, and now
comes forward with a supplemental,
but while at the same time, ironically,
obstructing the spending of the admin-
istration currently from spending
funds to secure the border through this
bill.
So the irony of the failure of the con-
ference committee report, the inability
to get a supplemental to the floor for a
vote this week, but yet refusing to
allow the administration to secure the
border through this bill in addition, so
it is ironic, and that is something that
we certainly would like to see restored.
But also, this would remove any
oversight and accountability that this
body has over the District of Columbia.
The District of Columbia is not like a
city in any of our States. It is a dis-
trict. It is a different entity under a
different charter, of which the greatest
Nation on the planet’s capital exists,
and I believe we should continue that
oversight, but yet this gives the Dis-
trict of Columbia a blank checkbook
here.
Then next I would say, you know, we
have talked about bipartisanship. This
bill does omit some longstanding bipar-
tisan provisions that we have always
agreed on, and I am not sure why we
would object to them today, or why the
new majority would object to them
today, but one, in particular, is to
allow taxpayer funding for the ending
of the lives of the innocent unborn.
Mr. Chairman, I don’t know why we
would go there today when year after
year after year, Republicans and Demo-
crats, House and Senate, have always
come together and said those lives are
precious and we should protect them
from the use of taxpayer funds being
used to eliminate their life.
And then I am concerned that the
bill as it is currently written would
force schools to withdraw from the Op-
portunity Scholarship Program. One of
the great successes this body has en-
joyed over the years is celebrating in
the success of children of the District
of Columbia benefiting from a scholar-
ship program, to see their lives im-
proved and enriched and move on into
a better future. In fact, the scholarship
program has a great record of success,
with 98 percent of 12th grade students
participating graduating, a 98 percent
graduation rate. Eighty-six percent of
them are accepted to a 2- or 4-year col-
lege after graduation.
We should not be making it harder
for these schools to operate. We
shouldn’t be making it harder for kids
to be able to enjoy this opportunity. In
fact, quite frankly, it is just an assault
on the low-income children right here
in the District of Columbia.
It is also disappointing that this bill
drops a long-standing prohibition
against requiring contractors to dis-
close campaign contributions as a part
of the Federal procurement process.
This process should be about getting
the best service by the best company
for the best price for the American peo-
ple, the best to assist our constituents.
Instead, now, if the provision as it is
stated in this bill continues, we might
be creating a new higher bidder sce-
nario in which it is the highest bidder
of political contributions going to a
company might get the bid instead of
something different, such as the best
price from the best company for the
best service.
Now, we all know that these are poi-
son pills that Members of both sides
shouldn’t be forced to swallow here
today.
As long as this bill is fashioned in
this manner, Mr. Chairman, we know
that it is not going to be signed into
law. Just yesterday President Trump
said that if this bill were on his desk in
this current form, he would veto this
legislation.
So I know we are going to have a ro-
bust debate today, and maybe we can
improve upon this foundation, but with
the Federal debt exceeding $22 trillion,
we just can’t afford to spend more. We
don’t need to spend more on general
governmental activities. Just because
we can spend it doesn’t mean we
should, nor should we spend it at any
time in the future when we have the
opportunity to cut, and instead, today
here we are spending more.
So it is up to us. Let’s set the exam-
ple, Mr. Chairman. Let’s leave this
country’s pocketbook in better shape
for our kids and our grandkids.
Mr. Chair, as I close, I do want to fin-
ish on a positive note, because we do
have a great working relationship. I
want to thank Chairman QUIGLEY. I
want to thank his team. They have ad-
dressed some of the priorities that are
important to us, and they have crafted
a small foundation which I know we
can all work from in the days ahead.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
New York (Mrs. LOWEY), the distin-
guished chairwoman of the full com-
mittee.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I thank
Chairman QUIGLEY for yielding, and I
would like to congratulate Chairman
QUIGLEY, Ranking Member GRAVES,
and the outstanding staff for the bill
before us.
House Democrats are fighting to en-
sure that America is safe, strong, and
moving forward.
The investments in this bill to fund
financial regulators and small busi-
nesses improve the financial security
of every American. With the inclusion
of funding for election security, we can
safeguard our democracy.
This bill would provide $12 billion for
the IRS, including $2.56 billion for tax-
payer services, and $290 million for
business systems modernization. These
increases are particularly important to
secure sensitive data housed at the
IRS.
Small businesses are the foundation
of our economy, and this bill gives
them and their employees a better shot
at success. A nearly 40 percent increase
to the Small Business Administration
includes a 14 percent increase for entre-
preneurial development programs like
Women’s Business Centers.
To combat the attacks on our democ-
racy by foreign powers, the bill would
provide $16.2 million for Election As-
sistance Commission operating ex-
penses, a 76 percent increase, and $600
million for election security grants.
Other important issues would make
DACA recipients eligible for Federal
employment and prohibit the use of
funds from the Treasury Forfeiture
Fund to construct the President’s ill-
conceived border wall.
What is not in this bill is also note-
worthy, starting with objectionable
riders from previous years that threat-
ened Home Rule for D.C., such as the
ban on D.C. using its own local funds to
support abortion services, needle ex-
changes, and the legalization of mari-
juana.
The bill would also eliminate three
riders related to the SEC and FEC
aimed at thwarting transparency and
disclosures of political contributions.
This bill would invest in a future
that supports the security of our data
and our elections, while setting up our
communities, making sure that our
communities succeed.
Mr. Chair, I urge support for the bill.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I appreciate the chairwoman,
Mrs. LOWEY. She has done a great job
this year with the committee, and she
is absolutely right in congratulating
Mr. QUIGLEY on his good work this
year.
Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
GRANGER), our Republican leader of the
full Appropriations Committee.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Chair, I thank
Mr. GRAVES for yielding. I appreciate
the work that he and Chairman
QUIGLEY have done to craft a Financial
Services and General Government bill
for fiscal year 2020.
The bill includes many priorities of
Members on both sides of the aisle,
such as support for small businesses,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.059 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5107
June 25, 2019
drug control programs, and the Treas-
ury Department’s counterterrorism
and financial intelligence efforts.
However, I am concerned that there
are several controversial items in the
bill regarding immigration policy, the
border wall, collective bargaining, and
many other provisions that will tie
this administration’s hands.
Regarding the District of Columbia,
this bill fails to provide appropriate
oversight. It is disappointing that the
bill does not include a longstanding
pro-life provision regarding the use of
D.C. local funds.
I am also troubled that my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
rejected an amendment offered in com-
mittee by Dr. HARRIS that would pre-
vent the District of Columbia from le-
galizing solicitation of prostitution or
profiting from the sex work of others.
The possibility of the bill pending be-
fore the D.C. Council becoming law is
appalling, and Congress must make it
clear that this is unacceptable. Con-
gress should not allow prostitution to
be legalized in our Nation’s capital.
Additionally, the bill includes an 8
percent increase in spending above the
current year. This level of spending is
excessive, and as I have said before,
this bill is written using an unrealistic
top line funding level.
In order for our work to be meaning-
ful and produce bills that can be signed
into law, leaders from both parties and
the administration must come together
and develop a mutually agreeable fund-
ing framework. Then we can turn to
drafting appropriations bills with bi-
partisan support that can be signed
into law.
In closing, I would like to thank
Chairwoman LOWEY, Chairman
QUIGLEY, Mr. GRAVES, as well as all of
the subcommittee members and the
staff for their hard work on this bill.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
4 minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SERRANO), the chairman of
the Commerce, Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies Subcommittee and a
member of the Financial Services and
General Government Subcommittee.
Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I rise in strong support of this bill,
the Financial Services and General
Government Appropriations Act.
Mr. Chair, I want to start by con-
gratulating my good friend and col-
league, Chairman MIKE QUIGLEY, for
his leadership in bringing our tenth ap-
propriations bill to the House floor.
Speaking from experience, I know this
is no easy task, and I am sure that the
relationship between he and Mr.
GRAVES will have a final product that
we can all vote for.
I am proud that the work that has
been accomplished here takes care of
so many issues. This bill provides $24.95
billion to assist elderly and low-income
taxpayers; support our entrepreneurs
and grow our small businesses; ensure
the products of our store shelves are
safe for children and families; protect
our economy by policing Wall Street;
protect and strengthen the integrity of
our election systems; and provide a 3.1
percent pay raise for Federal employ-
ees; and, once again, empower the Dis-
trict of Columbia to handle its own
local affairs.
b 1515
The administration has proposed to
eliminate the Community Develop-
ment Financial Institutions Fund,
risking the public-private investments
that are generating economic growth
in places like my district in the South
Bronx. In response, Congress is invest-
ing $300 million for this invaluable pro-
gram, an increase of $50 million over
fiscal year 2019.
This bill also provides $600 million in
Election Assistance Commission secu-
rity grants to help State election offi-
cials improve the security and integ-
rity of our elections. Our election sys-
tems remain vulnerable, and additional
investments like this can give voters
the peace of mind that, when they cast
their ballot, their vote will count and
be counted correctly. As we approach
elections this fall in several States
across the country and the Presidential
election next year, we must be ready to
combat any attempts to disrupt our
democratic institutions.
The Small Business Administration
will receive nearly $1 billion to con-
tinue providing technical assistance
and other services our Nation’s busi-
nessmen need to help get their business
ideas off the ground.
Out of the total amount, $150 million
will go to the Small Business Develop-
ment Centers Program, $35 million will
help provide Microloan technical as-
sistance, and $30 million will go toward
supporting and investing in women-
owned businesses through the Women’s
Business Centers. These investments
will help create jobs.
Last but not least, this bill once
again restores home rule to the Dis-
trict of Columbia. I cannot think of
anything more insulting than telling
any city across our country how they
can spend their locally raised funds or
requiring congressional approval to im-
plement laws their duly elected gov-
ernment officials enact. The intrusive
policy riders the bill removes will en-
sure D.C. can govern itself without
congressional meddling and address the
challenges it faces in serving its resi-
dents.
This is now our 10th bill on the floor.
Our Appropriations Committee is doing
the work of the people, and I congratu-
late, once again, Mr. QUIGLEY for his
work. I stand ready to vote for this
with great enthusiasm.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I appreciate Mr. SERRANO’s years
of work on the subcommittee as well as
his leadership on the Commerce, Jus-
tice, and Science Committee. It has
been a joy to work with him and learn
from him over the years. We are going
to miss his presence after this term, as
I know he has announced he is not run-
ning for reelection.
I now yield 4 minutes to the gentle-
woman from North Carolina (Ms.
FOXX), the Republican leader of the
Education and Labor Committee.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I thank my colleague from
Georgia for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to
H.R. 3351. One of the many faults of
this legislation is language designed to
eliminate educational options for low-
income families in the District of Co-
lumbia.
Mr. Chairman, every Member of this
body wants all students to receive an
excellent education. That is why Con-
gress authorized the D.C. Opportunity
Scholarship Program in 2004, which
provided low-income students in the
District of Columbia the chance to es-
cape public schools that were not
working for them and find a private
school that would meet their edu-
cational needs. Congress has reauthor-
ized this program twice, most recently
in 2017.
We know the program works. Just re-
cently, a witness testifying before the
Committee on Education and Labor de-
scribed her son pursued private school
options through the program in part
because he was bullied in his public el-
ementary school. He ultimately grad-
uated from his private high school as
salutatorian and is now attending the
University of Maryland.
This family’s story is not uncommon.
A Department of Education study on
the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Pro-
gram found that students receiving
scholarships were 21 percent more like-
ly to graduate high school than their
public school peers.
An Urban Institute study of the Flor-
ida Tax Credit Scholarship Program re-
leased earlier this year found similar
results. Students participating in that
program were more likely to attend
and graduate college than their public
school peers.
If we truly believe in improving edu-
cational outcomes for students, sup-
porting educational freedom is some-
thing all of us should support. Unfortu-
nately, the bill before us today seeks to
strip these choices from low-income
parents in D.C. under the guise of pro-
tecting students’ civil rights.
For example, the language would re-
quire private schools to follow most of
the requirements of the Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act. On the
surface, that sounds like it makes
sense, but families of students with dis-
abilities are exercising their freedom
to pursue private school options be-
cause the public school has failed their
child. They believe the private school
provides an educational program that
will provide a better outcome for their
student. They know that student bet-
ter than the Federal Government does.
Who are you to take that choice away?
And to be clear, the system the ma-
jority wants to shackle these families
with is failing.
Since 2007, the Department of Edu-
cation has evaluated States and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.060 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5108 June 25, 2019
District of Columbia on their compli-
ance with the requirements of the Indi-
viduals with Disabilities Education
Act. In every single year since then,
the District’s public school system has
failed to meet the requirements of the
law.
To put this in plain language, the
majority wants to return students who
have found educational choices that
work for them to a failing system. And
they are couching this policy in civil
rights terms. That is shameful.
The majority will presumably pass
this bill, but I urge the Senate to reject
this attempt to hide a special interest
giveaway behind civil rights language.
I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this bill.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. BISHOP), the chairman of the
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food
and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies Subcommittee and a member
of the Financial Services and General
Government Subcommittee.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I rise in strong support of the fis-
cal year 2020 Financial Services and
General Government Appropriations
Act.
The legislation before the House
today is vitally important to ensuring
the Federal Government and the U.S.
economy can work for the American
people. This bill safeguards our finan-
cial system and provides a fair playing
field for our taxpayers. It funds those
agencies that cultivate a vibrant and
competitive telecommunications sys-
tem that support new businesses and
that make sure our consumers are safe
from dangerous and defective products.
Perhaps more importantly, this bill
helps protect the integrity of our elec-
tions. As has been illustrated over the
last few years, it is imperative that we
provide the States with the resources
to ensure the sanctity of our demo-
cratic institution. This bill includes
$600 million in grant funding for elec-
tion security grants and, additionally,
$16.2 million is included for the Elec-
tion Assistance Commission operating
expenses, an increase of $7 million
above the 2019 enacted level.
I am also pleased that this legisla-
tion includes a total of $2.6 billion for
Taxpayer Services, which provides as-
sistance to the elderly and low-income
taxpayers to help navigate our complex
Tax Code, as well as increases in fund-
ing to address the growing tax gap.
Further, the legislation rejects the
administration’s elimination of the
Community Development Financial In-
stitutions Fund, a successful program
that leverages public-private invest-
ment to revitalize and provide jobs to
distressed rural and urban commu-
nities.
This bill also further embodies our
democratic mode of government by
supporting home rule for the District
of Columbia.
Finally, I thank Chairman QUIGLEY
for rejecting the administration’s mis-
guided plan to merge the GSA and
OPM. The GSA manages our Federal
properties, while OPM acts as the chief
human resources agency for our Fed-
eral workforce.
The administration’s unilateral pro-
posal to merge these two agencies
without any analysis of cost, rationale,
or risk would disrupt both agencies
without contributing to their mission.
It would potentially politicize our Fed-
eral career employees and create con-
fusion and bureaucracy for no
discernable reason.
To close, I would like to thank full
Committee Chairwoman LOWEY, Rank-
ing Member GRANGER, Subcommittee
Chairman QUIGLEY, and Ranking Mem-
ber GRAVES for their work on this bill.
As a member of the House Financial
Services and General Government Ap-
propriations Subcommittee, I urge my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
support this legislation.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I move
that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mrs.
TORRES of California) having assumed
the chair, Mr. KEATING, Chair of the
Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union, reported that that
Committee, having had under consider-
ation the bill (H.R. 3055) making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes, had come to no resolution
thereon.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 559. An act to amend section 6 of the
Joint Resolution entitled ‘‘A Joint Resolu-
tion to approve the Covenant To Establish a
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands in Political Union with the United
States of America, and for other purposes’’.
f
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GEN-
ERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 460 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 3351.
Will the gentleman from Massachu-
setts (Mr. KEATING) kindly resume the
chair.
b 1528
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
3351) making appropriations for finan-
cial services and general government
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes, with Mr.
KEATING in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. When the Committee of
the Whole rose earlier today, 31 min-
utes remained in general debate.
The gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
QUIGLEY) has 131⁄2 minutes remaining.
The gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
GRAVES) has 171⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
4 minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. CARTWRIGHT), a member
of the Financial Services and General
Government Subcommittee.
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Mr. Chairman, as
a member of the subcommittee, I rise
today to discuss the importance of the
Financial Services and General Gov-
ernment bill, FSGG.
First, I would like to thank Chair-
man QUIGLEY for his leadership on the
subcommittee and for his work on the
bill. I would also like to thank Rank-
ing Member GRAVES for all that he has
done to ensure this bill receives its
proper airing and reaches the floor and
for his support on several provisions in
the bill.
The FSGG bill supports a broad
range of functions and services in both
the executive and judicial branches
that are essential to the operation of
our Federal Government. The FSGG
bill supports programs that assist and
protect the public, such as shielding
consumers from defective and dan-
gerous products, assisting small busi-
nesses, investing in distressed commu-
nities, and ensuring the integrity of
Federal elections. This bill includes
significant funding to support these
critical functions.
b 1530
One especially important provision
the workers in my district appreciate
is the increase in the Federal civilian
pay by 3.1 percent in FY 2020. This pay
increase means so much to the hard-
working men and women in our Nation
who struggle to make ends meet while
serving our Nation. For far too long,
Federal workers have been short-
changed by the work they do, and their
wages have not kept up with the
changes in our country’s cost of living.
Importantly, this FSGG bill is also
about improving our economy. From
increased funding for the IRS to assist
taxpayers and bolster enforcement, to
supporting the Small Business Admin-
istration to help small businesses de-
velop and expand throughout the coun-
try, this bill will make our economy
stronger for everyday Americans.
Mr. Chairman, another important
program I would like to highlight in
the bill is the funding for the Office of
National Drug Control Policy. My
home State of Pennsylvania, like so
many others across the Nation, has
suffered severely from the effects of
the opioid crisis. To help combat this
crisis, the ONDCP receives $100.5 mil-
lion for the Drug-Free Communities
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.062 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5109
June 25, 2019
program, along with $300 million for
the High Intensity Drug Trafficking
Areas program in the bill.
Notably, these funding levels are a
rejection of the administration’s pro-
posed transfer or elimination of the
ONDCP grant programs. It is vital that
we continue to support these programs,
which help fight addiction issues in
communities across this Nation.
Finally, this FSGG bill takes an im-
portant step in improving election se-
curity and integrity. In the last Presi-
dential election, we saw unprecedented
interference with our election system,
an issue that we, as a Congress, must
address in the strongest of terms in
support and defense of our national
sovereignty. We cannot, and will not,
allow any foreign power to harm our
democracy. It rests solely in the hands
of the American people.
To that end, the FSGG bill provides
$600 million to the Election Assistance
Commission. This commission deals
with issues that are extraordinarily
important to this Nation, conducting
reliable, secure, and accessible elec-
tions. The integrity of American elec-
tions should not be a partisan matter.
Mr. Chairman, for these reasons, I
am proud to support this bill as it
comes to the floor today, and I urge my
colleagues to do the same.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I continue to reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Mrs. TORRES), a member of
the Financial Services Subcommittee.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Chairman, I thank Chairman QUIGLEY
and Ranking Member GRAVES for their
hard work on the Financial Services
and General Government Appropria-
tions bill. This legislation prioritizes
public safety and invests in under-
served communities like the ones that
I represent.
I am especially grateful to the chair-
man for increasing funding to the High
Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas pro-
gram at its highest possible level. Drug
trafficking is a major challenge for my
district. It brings violence and crime to
our streets. It is flooding our commu-
nities and schools with harmful, illegal
drugs like cocaine, methamphetamine,
and opioids.
Our local law enforcement is the first
line of defense. They understand what
is going on in our neighborhoods, in
our schools, and in our families.
What I appreciate so much about
HIDTA is that it creates a real partner-
ship, a partnership between local law
enforcement, State agencies, and Fed-
eral enforcement agencies. It provides
them with important resources to
bring to the fight against illegal drugs.
It also supports prevention and edu-
cation campaigns to ensure that our
children do not suffer from addiction
and deadly overdoses.
On the subject of public safety, I am
encouraged that this bill prevents the
administration from raiding funds from
the Treasury Department’s asset for-
feiture funds. These are funds that our
local police departments can use to
purchase better equipment and keep
our communities safe.
Another way to strengthen public
safety is by financially investing in our
local communities. I am pleased that
the bill rejects President Trump’s pro-
posal to cut funding for community de-
velopment financial institutions by 94
percent.
Mr. Chairman, I look forward to the
swift passage of the Financial Services
and General Government Appropria-
tions bill.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Chairman, I would like to just
highlight one little point there. I really
enjoy working with Mrs. TORRES. She
is a great addition to the committee
this year and spends a lot of time in
the Rules Committee, so she hears a
lot of the different issues that we all
discuss. But the forfeiture fund—I
think this is a really important point
to highlight—wouldn’t necessarily go
to local law enforcement. These are
funds that are collected from criminals
that the administration was going to
use to stop criminals.
What better way to secure our Nation
than using the funds that have been
forfeited by criminals to stop future
criminals. This bill eliminates that
ability of the administration to do
that. I feel like that was $290-plus mil-
lion that could go to better invest in
securing our southern border and, un-
fortunately, this bill has removed that.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LEE), a member of the
Appropriations Committee.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Chairman,
first, let me thank Chairman QUIGLEY
for his leadership and for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong sup-
port of the fiscal year 2020 Financial
Services and General Government Ap-
propriations bill.
This includes $1.4 billion in funding
over fiscal year 2019 enacted levels to
support critical functions and services
in the executive and judicial branches,
it ensures the integrity of our Federal
elections, as well as supporting critical
programs that protect consumers.
I am pleased that the bill includes
my language that would nullify Presi-
dent Trump’s proposed changes to the
calculation of how we measure poverty,
which would have a devastating impact
on families all across the country.
This bill also includes $23 million for
the Healthy Food Financing Initiative,
which provides critical financing to at-
tract grocery stores, food banks, and
other fresh food businesses to under-
served areas. Thanks to HFFI, healthy
food initiatives are available in all of
our congressional districts in urban
and in rural communities, and also in
my congressional district at the
Mandela MarketPlace in Oakland, Cali-
fornia.
As co-chair of the Pro-Choice Caucus,
I thank Chairman QUIGLEY for lifting
the ban on the use of local D.C. funds
for abortion services. This ban has un-
justly prevented 55,000 D.C. women of
reproductive age from accessing the
full range of reproductive healthcare,
including abortion. This has been tar-
geted to low-income women, primarily
women of color, so I thank Chairman
QUIGLEY for this.
The bill also includes language pro-
hibiting funds appropriated in this bill
from being used to penalize financial
institutions from providing financial
services to an entity that participates
in a business or organized activity in-
volving cannabis that is legal on the
State level.
With 33 States and the District of Co-
lumbia legalizing some form of can-
nabis use, it is past time for Congress
to ensure that the Federal Government
can’t infringe on what State and local
jurisdictions are doing on cannabis re-
form. Whether you agree or not, States
and local jurisdictions have passed
some form of legalization or medical
marijuana, so let’s leave the States to
their own business on this issue.
I thank Chairman QUIGLEY, also, for
including $30 million for community fi-
nancial development institutions,
which is an increase of $50 million over
fiscal year 2019 enacted levels. CDFIs
are really a lifeline across the country,
especially underbanked communities,
which many of us represent.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to support this bill.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Chairman, I know we are reach-
ing the conclusion here of general de-
bate of the bill. We have heard cer-
tainly some positives about the bill
and we have heard some negatives
about the bill. I think there is a great
opportunity to work together and build
upon the foundation in which there is
agreement. But until then, there are
certainly items that there is strong
disagreement on.
In summary, working with Mr.
QUIGLEY has been fantastic. He has
done a great job of getting us to this
point. I know, under his leadership, we
will continue working together until
we can have a product that Repub-
licans and Democrats alike can sup-
port, can get through the Senate, and,
yes, needs the signature of the Presi-
dent of the United States, Donald
Trump.
But as the bill stands today, I guess
if I had to sum it up, if you want to
spend a lot more, if you want to weak-
en our national security, if you want to
wash your hands of oversight and ac-
countability of Washington, D.C.—the
District of Columbia, here where we re-
side and so many of our constituents
come to visit—or maybe, more impor-
tantly, if you really want to limit the
access of low-income children from en-
joying and benefiting from one of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.065 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5110 June 25, 2019
best educations they could receive,
then this is the bill for you, but it is
not the bill for us.
We believe that we can reduce spend-
ing. We believe that national security
should be a priority. We believe that
D.C. does deserve some oversight. And
we certainly believe that low-income
children deserve the best opportunity
that they can have to have the best
education possible that provides them
the best future that their dreams are
imagining right now, but this bill just
doesn’t provide that.
Mr. Chairman, it is for those reasons
that I can’t support this.
Lastly, I would say, knowing that
this bill would never become law, I
think that should cause us all to just
pause for a second and go: Do you know
what? Maybe we should take it back
and go back to the drawing board to
see if we can’t find some more areas of
agreement and build a better product
in which Republicans and Democrats
alike could support, the Senate could
pass with 60 votes, and the President of
the United States could sign.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, again, I want to re-
state that it has been a pleasure to
work with my colleagues across the
aisle, particularly the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. GRAVES).
In response to a couple of the rank-
ing member’s comments, if all we did
was write a bill that we were convinced
the President of the United States
would support, we would just say: Well,
what do you want us to introduce and
what do you want to us approve?
These are separate branches of gov-
ernment. It is our purpose to work on
a bipartisan basis, recognizing where
the President of the United States is
on the issues, but to put together the
best product we possibly can. When the
Senate does the same, there will be dif-
ferences, and that is what conference
committees are all about. That is
what, unfortunately, is somewhat lost
in this town, is this sense of com-
promise and working together.
I want to stress a few things. Special
counsel has only spoken to this coun-
try directly once since he revealed his
2-year work product. And that was to
tell us that we need to protect this
country from further attack by the
Russians on a democratic process. I
think this bill does that in an extraor-
dinarily appropriate fashion.
As it references the school children
of Washington, D.C., all we are sug-
gesting in doing what we are doing, and
providing extraordinary amounts of
funding to do so, is that all the schools
of Washington, D.C. that get Federal
tax dollars have to follow the same
rules. They have to play on the same
level playing field. That is only fair to
those children. It doesn’t deny anyone
access to the best education that is
possible.
So with those things in mind, I
think, in referencing the District of Co-
lumbia, the last thing we can say is,
just because we can micromanage them
doesn’t mean we should micromanage
them. Nobody here was elected to the
D.C. City Council. Unless it has ex-
traordinary national policy implica-
tions, let them run their own govern-
ment.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to support this bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
b 1545
The CHAIR. All time for general de-
bate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule. The bill shall be consid-
ered as read.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3351
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That the following sums
are appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Depart-
mental Offices including operation and
maintenance of the Treasury Building and
Freedman’s Bank Building; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and
improvements of, and purchase of commer-
cial insurance policies for, real properties
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for
the performance of official business; execu-
tive direction program activities; inter-
national affairs and economic policy activi-
ties; domestic finance and tax policy activi-
ties, including technical assistance to State,
local, and territorial entities; and Treasury-
wide management policies and programs ac-
tivities, $224,373,000: Provided, That of the
amount appropriated under this heading—
(1) not to exceed $350,000 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses;
(2) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen
emergencies of a confidential nature to be
allocated and expended under the direction
of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be
accounted for solely on the Secretary’s cer-
tificate; and
(3) not to exceed $24,000,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2021, for—
(A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement
Audit and Internal Control Program;
(B) information technology modernization
requirements;
(C) the audit, oversight, and administra-
tion of the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust
Fund;
(D) the development and implementation
of programs within the Office of Critical In-
frastructure Protection and Compliance Pol-
icy, including entering into cooperative
agreements;
(E) operations and maintenance of facili-
ties; and
(F) international operations.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE
UNITED STATES FUND
For necessary expenses of the Committee
on Foreign Investment in the United States,
$20,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the chairperson of the
Committee may transfer funds provided
under this heading to a department or agen-
cy represented on the Committee (including
the Department of the Treasury) upon the
advance notification of the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate: Provided further, That
amounts so transferred shall remain avail-
able until expended for expenses of imple-
menting section 721 of the Defense Produc-
tion Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565), and shall be
available in addition to any other funds
available to any department or agency: Pro-
vided further, That fees authorized by section
721(p) of the Defense Production Act of 1950,
shall be credited to this appropriation as off-
setting collections: Provided further, That the
total amount appropriated under this head-
ing from the general fund shall be reduced as
such offsetting collections are received dur-
ing fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a total
appropriation from the general fund esti-
mated at not more than $10,000,000.
OFFICE OF TERRORISM AND FINANCIAL
INTELLIGENCE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the necessary expenses of the Office of
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence to safe-
guard the financial system against illicit use
and to combat rogue nations, terrorist
facilitators, weapons of mass destruction
proliferators, human rights abusers, money
launderers, drug kingpins, and other na-
tional security threats, $167,712,000, of which
not less than $3,000,000 shall be for enforce-
ment of sanctions, as authorized by the
Global Magnitsky Human Rights Account-
ability Act (Public Law 114–328): Provided,
That of the amounts appropriated under this
heading, up to $10,000,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021.
CYBERSECURITY ENHANCEMENT ACCOUNT
For salaries and expenses for enhanced cy-
bersecurity for systems operated by the De-
partment of the Treasury, $18,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2022: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall supplement and
not supplant any other amounts made avail-
able to the Treasury offices and bureaus for
cybersecurity: Provided further, That of the
total amount made available under this
heading $1,000,000 shall be available for ad-
ministrative expenses for the Treasury Chief
Information Officer to provide oversight of
the investments made under this heading:
Provided further, That such funds shall sup-
plement and not supplant any other amounts
made available to the Treasury Chief Infor-
mation Officer.
DEPARTMENT-WIDE SYSTEMS AND CAPITAL
INVESTMENTS PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For development and acquisition of auto-
matic data processing equipment, software,
and services and for repairs and renovations
to buildings owned by the Department of the
Treasury, $6,118,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2022: Provided, That these
funds shall be transferred to accounts and in
amounts as necessary to satisfy the require-
ments of the Department’s offices, bureaus,
and other organizations: Provided further,
That this transfer authority shall be in addi-
tion to any other transfer authority provided
in this Act: Provided further, That none of
the funds appropriated under this heading
shall be used to support or supplement ‘‘In-
ternal Revenue Service, Operations Support’’
or ‘‘Internal Revenue Service, Business Sys-
tems Modernization’’.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$40,044,000, including hire of passenger motor
vehicles; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall
be available for unforeseen emergencies of a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.066 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5111
June 25, 2019
confidential nature, to be allocated and ex-
pended under the direction of the Inspector
General of the Treasury; of which up to
$2,800,000 to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, shall be for audits and inves-
tigations conducted pursuant to section 1608
of the Resources and Ecosystems Sustain-
ability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived
Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of
2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of which not to
exceed $1,000 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
TREASURY INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR TAX
ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Treasury In-
spector General for Tax Administration in
carrying out the Inspector General Act of
1978, including purchase and hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such
rates as may be determined by the Inspector
General for Tax Administration; $171,350,000,
of which $5,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2021; of which not to ex-
ceed $6,000,000 shall be available for official
travel expenses; of which not to exceed
$500,000 shall be available for unforeseen
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be
allocated and expended under the direction
of the Inspector General for Tax Administra-
tion; and of which not to exceed $1,500 shall
be available for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses.
SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE
TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Special Inspector General in carrying out
the provisions of the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–
343), $23,000,000.
FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles; travel and
training expenses of non-Federal and foreign
government personnel to attend meetings
and training concerned with domestic and
foreign financial intelligence activities, law
enforcement, and financial regulation; serv-
ices authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; not to ex-
ceed $12,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; and for assistance to
Federal law enforcement agencies, with or
without reimbursement, $124,700,000, of
which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2022.
BUREAU OF THE FISCAL SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of operations of the
Bureau of the Fiscal Service, $340,280,000; of
which not to exceed $7,733,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2022, is for in-
formation systems modernization initia-
tives; and of which $5,000 shall be available
for official reception and representation ex-
penses.
In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to reimburse
administrative and personnel expenses for fi-
nancial management of the Fund, as author-
ized by section 1012 of Public Law 101–380.
ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX AND TRADE
BUREAU
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of carrying out sec-
tion 1111 of the Homeland Security Act of
2002, including hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles, $119,600,000; of which not to exceed $6,000
for official reception and representation ex-
penses; and of which not to exceed $50,000
shall be available for cooperative research
and development programs for laboratory
services; and provision of laboratory assist-
ance to State and local agencies with or
without reimbursement: Provided, That of
the amount appropriated under this heading,
$5,000,000 shall be for the costs of accel-
erating the processing of formula and label
applications: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated under this heading,
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, shall be for the costs associ-
ated with enforcement of the trade practice
provisions of the Federal Alcohol Adminis-
tration Act (27 U.S.C. 201 et seq.).
UNITED STATES MINT
UNITED STATES MINT PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FUND
Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United
States Code, the United States Mint is pro-
vided funding through the United States
Mint Public Enterprise Fund for costs asso-
ciated with the production of circulating
coins, numismatic coins, and protective
services, including both operating expenses
and capital investments: Provided, That the
aggregate amount of new liabilities and obli-
gations incurred during fiscal year 2020
under such section 5136 for circulating coin-
age and protective service capital invest-
ments of the United States Mint shall not
exceed $30,000,000.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS FUND PROGRAM ACCOUNT
To carry out the Riegle Community Devel-
opment and Regulatory Improvement Act of
1994 (subtitle A of title I of Public Law 103–
325), including services authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at
rates for individuals not to exceed the per
diem rate equivalent to the rate for EX–3,
$300,000,000. Of the amount appropriated
under this heading—
(1) not less than $191,000,000, notwith-
standing section 108(e) of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(e)) with regard to Small and/
or Emerging Community Development Fi-
nancial Institutions Assistance awards, is
available until September 30, 2021, for finan-
cial assistance and technical assistance
under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section
108(a)(1), respectively, of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(a)(1)(A) and (B)), of which up
to $1,600,000 may be available for training
and outreach under section 109 of Public Law
103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4708), of which up to
$2,397,500 may be used for the cost of direct
loans, and of which up to $4,000,000, notwith-
standing subsection (d) of section 108 of Pub-
lic Law 103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4707 (d)), may be
available to provide financial assistance,
technical assistance, training, and outreach
to community development financial institu-
tions to expand investments that benefit in-
dividuals with disabilities: Provided, That
the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, in-
cluding the cost of modifying such loans,
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided fur-
ther, That these funds are available to sub-
sidize gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct loans not to exceed
$25,000,000: Provided further, That of the funds
provided under this paragraph, excluding
those made to community development fi-
nancial institutions to expand investments
that benefit individuals with disabilities and
those made to community development fi-
nancial institutions that serve populations
living in persistent poverty counties, the
CDFI Fund shall prioritize Financial Assist-
ance awards to organizations that invest and
lend in high-poverty areas: Provided further,
That for purposes of this section, the term
‘‘high-poverty area’’ means any census tract
with a poverty rate of at least 20 percent as
measured by the 2011-2015 5-year data series
available from the American Community
Survey of the Bureau of the Census;
(2) not less than $20,000,000, notwith-
standing section 108(e) of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for financial assistance,
technical assistance, training, and outreach
programs designed to benefit Native Amer-
ican, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native
communities and provided primarily through
qualified community development lender or-
ganizations with experience and expertise in
community development banking and lend-
ing in Indian country, Native American or-
ganizations, tribes and tribal organizations,
and other suitable providers;
(3) not less than $27,000,000 is available
until September 30, 2021, for the Bank Enter-
prise Award program;
(4) not less than $23,000,000, notwith-
standing subsections (d) and (e) of section 108
of Public Law 103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(d) and
(e)), is available until September 30, 2021, for
a Healthy Food Financing Initiative to pro-
vide financial assistance, technical assist-
ance, training, and outreach to community
development financial institutions for the
purpose of offering affordable financing and
technical assistance to expand the avail-
ability of healthy food options in distressed
communities;
(5) not less than $10,000,000 is available
until September 30, 2021, to provide grants
for loan loss reserve funds and to provide
technical assistance for small dollar loan
programs under section 122 of Public Law
103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4719): Provided, That sec-
tions 108(d) and 122(b)(2) of such Public Law
shall not apply to the provision of such
grants and technical assistance;
(6) up to $29,000,000 is available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for administrative expenses,
including administration of CDFI Fund pro-
grams and the New Markets Tax Credit Pro-
gram, of which not less than $1,000,000 is for
development of tools to better assess and in-
form CDFI investment performance, and up
to $300,000 is for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct loan program; and
(7) during fiscal year 2020, none of the
funds available under this heading are avail-
able for the cost, as defined in section 502 of
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of com-
mitments to guarantee bonds and notes
under section 114A of the Riegle Community
Development and Regulatory Improvement
Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a): Provided, That
commitments to guarantee bonds and notes
under such section 114A shall not exceed
$500,000,000: Provided further, That such sec-
tion 114A shall remain in effect until Decem-
ber 31, 2020: Provided further, That of the
funds awarded under this heading, not less
than 10 percent shall be used for awards that
support investments that serve populations
living in persistent poverty counties: Pro-
vided further, That for the purposes of this
paragraph and paragraph (1) the term ‘‘per-
sistent poverty counties’’ means any county
that has had 20 percent or more of its popu-
lation living in poverty over the past 30
years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 de-
cennial censuses and the 2011–2015 5-year
data series available from the American
Community Survey of the Bureau of the Cen-
sus.
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
TAXPAYER SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service to provide taxpayer serv-
ices, including pre-filing assistance and edu-
cation, filing and account services, taxpayer
advocacy services, and other services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as
may be determined by the Commissioner,
$2,558,554,000, of which not less than
$11,000,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for
the Elderly Program, of which not less than
$13,000,000 shall be available for low-income
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5112 June 25, 2019
taxpayer clinic grants, of which not less
than $25,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2021, shall be available for a
Community Volunteer Income Tax Assist-
ance matching grants program for tax return
preparation assistance, and of which not less
than $209,000,000 shall be available for oper-
ating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate
Service: Provided, That of the amounts made
available for the Taxpayer Advocate Service,
not less than $5,500,000 shall be for identity
theft and refund fraud casework.
ENFORCEMENT
For necessary expenses for tax enforce-
ment activities of the Internal Revenue
Service to determine and collect owed taxes,
to provide legal and litigation support, to
conduct criminal investigations, to enforce
criminal statutes related to violations of in-
ternal revenue laws and other financial
crimes, to purchase and hire passenger
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to pro-
vide other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, at such rates as may be determined by
the Commissioner, $4,957,446,000, of which not
to exceed $250,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2021, and of which not
less than $60,257,000 shall be for the Inter-
agency Crime and Drug Enforcement pro-
gram: Provided, That of the funds provided
under this heading, $4,860,000,000 is provided
to meet the terms of section 251(b)(2) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985, as amended, and section
1(f)(2) of H. Res. 293 of the 116th Congress as
engrossed in the House of Representatives on
April 9, 2019. In addition, not less than
$200,000,000 for tax enforcement activities
under this heading, including tax compliance
to address the Federal tax gap: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is additional new
budget authority for tax enforcement activi-
ties, including tax compliance to address the
Federal tax gap, as specified for purposes of
section 251(b)(2) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as
amended, and section 1(f)(1) of H. Res. 293 of
the 116th Congress.
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service to support taxpayer serv-
ices and enforcement programs, including
rent payments; facilities services; printing;
postage; physical security; headquarters and
other IRS-wide administration activities; re-
search and statistics of income; tele-
communications; information technology de-
velopment, enhancement, operations, main-
tenance, and security; the hire of passenger
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the oper-
ations of the Internal Revenue Service Over-
sight Board; and other services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be de-
termined by the Commissioner; $3,794,000,000,
of which not to exceed $250,000,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021; of
which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain
available until expended for acquisition of
equipment and construction, repair and ren-
ovation of facilities; of which not to exceed
$1,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, for research; of which not to
exceed $20,000 shall be for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided, That
not later than 30 days after the end of each
quarter, the Internal Revenue Service shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate and the Comptroller General
of the United States detailing the cost and
schedule performance for its major informa-
tion technology investments, including the
purpose and life-cycle stages of the invest-
ments; the reasons for any cost and schedule
variances; the risks of such investments and
strategies the Internal Revenue Service is
using to mitigate such risks; and the ex-
pected developmental milestones to be
achieved and costs to be incurred in the next
quarter: Provided further, That the Internal
Revenue Service shall include, in its budget
justification for fiscal year 2021, a summary
of cost and schedule performance informa-
tion for its major information technology
systems: Provided further, That of the funds
provided under this paragraph, $3,724,000,000
is provided to meet the terms of section
251(b)(2) of the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amend-
ed, and section 1(f)(2) of H. Res. 293 of the
116th Congress as engrossed in the House of
Representatives on April 9, 2019. In addition,
not less than $200,000,000 for enforcement tax
activities under this heading, including tax
compliance to address the Federal tax gap:
Provided further, That such amount is addi-
tional new budget authority for tax enforce-
ment activities, including tax compliance to
address the Federal tax gap, as specified for
purposes of section 251(b)(2) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985, as amended, and section 1(f)(1) of H.
Res. 293 of the 116th Congress.
BUSINESS SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service’s business systems mod-
ernization program, $290,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2022, for the
capital asset acquisition of information
technology systems, including management,
labor, and related contractual costs of said
acquisitions, including related Internal Rev-
enue Service labor costs, and contractual
costs associated with operations authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That not later
than 30 days after the end of each quarter,
the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a
report to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate and the Comptroller General of the
United States detailing the cost and sched-
ule performance for major information tech-
nology investments included in the Internal
Revenue Service Integrated Modernization
Business Plan.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—INTERNAL
REVENUE SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 101. Not to exceed 4 percent of the ap-
propriation made available in this Act to the
Internal Revenue Service under the ‘‘En-
forcement’’ heading, and not to exceed 5 per-
cent of any other appropriation made avail-
able in this Act to the Internal Revenue
Service, may be transferred to any other In-
ternal Revenue Service appropriation upon
the advance approval of the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate.
SEC. 102. The Internal Revenue Service
shall maintain an employee training pro-
gram, which shall include the following top-
ics: taxpayers’ rights, dealing courteously
with taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, eth-
ics, and the impartial application of tax law.
SEC. 103. The Internal Revenue Service
shall institute and enforce policies and pro-
cedures that will safeguard the confiden-
tiality of taxpayer information and protect
taxpayers against identity theft.
SEC. 104. Funds made available by this or
any other Act to the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice shall be available for improved facilities
and increased staffing to provide sufficient
and effective 1–800 help line service for tax-
payers. The Commissioner shall continue to
make improvements to the Internal Revenue
Service 1–800 help line service a priority and
allocate resources necessary to enhance the
response time to taxpayer communications,
particularly with regard to victims of tax-re-
lated crimes.
SEC. 105. The Internal Revenue Service
shall issue a notice of confirmation of any
address change relating to an employer mak-
ing employment tax payments, and such no-
tice shall be sent to both the employer’s
former and new address and an officer or em-
ployee of the Internal Revenue Service shall
give special consideration to an offer-in-com-
promise from a taxpayer who has been the
victim of fraud by a third party payroll tax
preparer.
SEC. 106. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used by the Internal
Revenue Service to target citizens of the
United States for exercising any right guar-
anteed under the First Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
SEC. 107. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by the Internal Rev-
enue Service to target groups for regulatory
scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs.
SEC. 108. None of funds made available by
this Act to the Internal Revenue Service
shall be obligated or expended on con-
ferences that do not adhere to the proce-
dures, verification processes, documentation
requirements, and policies issued by the
Chief Financial Officer, Human Capital Of-
fice, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a
result of the recommendations in the report
published on May 31, 2013, by the Treasury
Inspector General for Tax Administration
entitled ‘‘Review of the August 2010 Small
Business/Self-Employed Division’s Con-
ference in Anaheim, California’’ (Reference
Number 2013–10–037).
SEC. 109. None of the funds made available
in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service
may be obligated or expended—
(1) to make a payment to any employee
under a bonus, award, or recognition pro-
gram; or
(2) under any hiring or personnel selection
process with respect to re-hiring a former
employee, unless such program or process
takes into account the conduct and Federal
tax compliance of such employee or former
employee.
SEC. 110. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used in contravention of
section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (relating to confidentiality and disclo-
sure of returns and return information).
SEC. 111. Section 9503 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘Before’’ and inserting ‘‘before’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (5), by inserting before the
semicolon the following: ‘‘, but are renew-
able for an additional two years based on
critical organization need’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(c) The Secretary may exercise the au-
thority provided by subsection (a) with re-
spect to positions for IT specialists through
September 30, 2023.’’.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT
OF THE TREASURY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 112. Appropriations to the Department
of the Treasury in this Act shall be available
for uniforms or allowances therefor, as au-
thorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; purchase
of insurance for official motor vehicles oper-
ated in foreign countries; purchase of motor
vehicles without regard to the general pur-
chase price limitations for vehicles pur-
chased and used overseas for the current fis-
cal year; entering into contracts with the
Department of State for the furnishing of
health and medical services to employees
and their dependents serving in foreign coun-
tries; and services authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109.
SEC. 113. Not to exceed 2 percent of any ap-
propriations in this title made available
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5113
June 25, 2019
under the headings ‘‘Departmental Offices—
Salaries and Expenses’’, ‘‘Office of Terrorism
and Financial Intelligence’’, ‘‘Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network’’, ‘‘Bureau of
the Fiscal Service’’, and ‘‘Alcohol and To-
bacco Tax and Trade Bureau’’ may be trans-
ferred between such appropriations upon the
advance approval of the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided, That no transfer
under this section may increase or decrease
any such appropriation by more than 2 per-
cent.
SEC. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any ap-
propriation made available in this Act to the
Internal Revenue Service may be transferred
to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration’s appropriation upon the ad-
vance approval of the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided, That no transfer
may increase or decrease any such appro-
priation by more than 2 percent.
SEC. 115. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act or otherwise available to the De-
partment of the Treasury or the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing may be used to rede-
sign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
SEC. 116. The Secretary of the Treasury
may transfer funds from the ‘‘Bureau of the
Fiscal Service—Salaries and Expenses’’ to
the Debt Collection Fund as necessary to
cover the costs of debt collection: Provided,
That such amounts shall be reimbursed to
such salaries and expenses account from debt
collections received in the Debt Collection
Fund.
SEC. 117. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be used by the United States
Mint to construct or operate any museum
without the explicit approval of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate, the House Com-
mittee on Financial Services, and the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
SEC. 118. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act or source to the Department of the
Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing, and the United States Mint, indi-
vidually or collectively, may be used to con-
solidate any or all functions of the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing and the United
States Mint without the explicit approval of
the House Committee on Financial Services;
the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs; and the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate.
SEC. 119. Funds appropriated by this Act,
or made available by the transfer of funds in
this Act, for the Department of the Treas-
ury’s intelligence or intelligence related ac-
tivities are deemed to be specifically author-
ized by the Congress for purposes of section
504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2020 until the
enactment of the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
SEC. 120. Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made
available from the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing’s Industrial Revolving Fund for
necessary official reception and representa-
tion expenses.
SEC. 121. The Secretary of the Treasury
shall submit a Capital Investment Plan to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate not
later than 30 days following the submission
of the annual budget submitted by the Presi-
dent: Provided, That such Capital Investment
Plan shall include capital investment spend-
ing from all accounts within the Department
of the Treasury, including but not limited to
the Department-wide Systems and Capital
Investment Programs account, Treasury
Franchise Fund account, and the Treasury
Forfeiture Fund account: Provided further,
That such Capital Investment Plan shall in-
clude expenditures occurring in previous fis-
cal years for each capital investment project
that has not been fully completed.
SEC. 122. Within 45 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall submit an itemized report to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate on
the amount of total funds charged to each of-
fice by the Franchise Fund including the
amount charged for each service provided by
the Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed
description of the services, a detailed expla-
nation of how each charge for each service is
calculated, and a description of the role cus-
tomers have in governing in the Franchise
Fund.
SEC. 123. (a) Not later than 60 days after
the end of each quarter, the Office of Finan-
cial Research shall submit reports on their
activities to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate, the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives,
and the Senate Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
(b) The reports required under subsection
(a) shall include—
(1) the obligations made during the pre-
vious quarter by object class, office, and ac-
tivity;
(2) the estimated obligations for the re-
mainder of the fiscal year by object class, of-
fice, and activity;
(3) the number of full-time equivalents
within each office during the previous quar-
ter;
(4) the estimated number of full-time
equivalents within each office for the re-
mainder of the fiscal year; and
(5) actions taken to achieve the goals, ob-
jectives, and performance measures of each
office.
(c) At the request of any such Committees
specified in subsection (a), the Office of Fi-
nancial Research shall make officials avail-
able to testify on the contents of the reports
required under subsection (a).
SEC. 124. Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of
section 402(c) of the Helping Families Save
Their Homes Act of 2009, in utilizing funds
made available by paragraph (1) of section
402(c) of such Act, the Special Inspector Gen-
eral for the Troubled Asset Relief Program
shall prioritize the performance of audits or
investigations of any program that is funded
in whole or in part by funds appropriated
under the Emergency Economic Stabiliza-
tion Act of 2008, to the extent that such pri-
ority is consistent with other aspects of the
mission of the Special Inspector General.
SEC. 125. None of the funds provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of the Treasury—
Office of Terrorism and Financial Intel-
ligence’’ may be used to pay the salary of a
Department of the Treasury employee de-
tailed to another Department, agency, or of-
fice funded by this Act.
SEC. 126. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds available in
the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture
Fund established by section 9705 of title 31,
United States Code, may be obligated, ex-
pended, or used to plan, design, construct, or
carry out a project to construct a wall, bar-
rier, fence, or road along the southern border
of the United States, or a road to provide ac-
cess to a wall, barrier, or fence constructed
along the southern border of the United
States.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of the Treasury Appropriations Act, 2020’’.
TITLE II
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE
PRESIDENT
THE WHITE HOUSE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the White
House as authorized by law, including not to
exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence ex-
penses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which
shall be expended and accounted for as pro-
vided in that section; hire of passenger
motor vehicles, and travel (not to exceed
$100,000 to be expended and accounted for as
provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed
$19,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, to be available for allocation
within the Executive Office of the President;
and for necessary expenses of the Office of
Policy Development, including services as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107,
$55,000,000.
EXECUTIVE RESIDENCE AT THE WHITE HOUSE
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Executive
Residence at the White House, $13,081,000, to
be expended and accounted for as provided by
3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112–114.
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
For the reimbursable expenses of the Exec-
utive Residence at the White House, such
sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all
reimbursable operating expenses of the Exec-
utive Residence shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of this paragraph: Pro-
vided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, such amount for re-
imbursable operating expenses shall be the
exclusive authority of the Executive Resi-
dence to incur obligations and to receive off-
setting collections, for such expenses: Pro-
vided further, That the Executive Residence
shall require each person sponsoring a reim-
bursable political event to pay in advance an
amount equal to the estimated cost of the
event, and all such advance payments shall
be credited to this account and remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
the Executive Residence shall require the na-
tional committee of the political party of
the President to maintain on deposit $25,000,
to be separately accounted for and available
for expenses relating to reimbursable polit-
ical events sponsored by such committee
during such fiscal year: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall ensure
that a written notice of any amount owed for
a reimbursable operating expense under this
paragraph is submitted to the person owing
such amount within 60 days after such ex-
pense is incurred, and that such amount is
collected within 30 days after the submission
of such notice: Provided further, That the Ex-
ecutive Residence shall charge interest and
assess penalties and other charges on any
such amount that is not reimbursed within
such 30 days, in accordance with the interest
and penalty provisions applicable to an out-
standing debt on a United States Govern-
ment claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717: Provided fur-
ther, That each such amount that is reim-
bursed, and any accompanying interest and
charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury
as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall prepare
and submit to the Committees on Appropria-
tions, by not later than 90 days after the end
of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a re-
port setting forth the reimbursable oper-
ating expenses of the Executive Residence
during the preceding fiscal year, including
the total amount of such expenses, the
amount of such total that consists of reim-
bursable official and ceremonial events, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5114 June 25, 2019
amount of such total that consists of reim-
bursable political events, and the portion of
each such amount that has been reimbursed
as of the date of the report: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall maintain
a system for the tracking of expenses related
to reimbursable events within the Executive
Residence that includes a standard for the
classification of any such expense as polit-
ical or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no
provision of this paragraph may be construed
to exempt the Executive Residence from any
other applicable requirement of subchapter I
or II of chapter 37 of title 31, United States
Code.
WHITE HOUSE REPAIR AND RESTORATION
For the repair, alteration, and improve-
ment of the Executive Residence at the
White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 105(d),
$750,000, to remain available until expended,
for required maintenance, resolution of safe-
ty and health issues, and continued prevent-
ative maintenance.
COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Council of
Economic Advisers in carrying out its func-
tions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15
U.S.C. 1021 et seq.), $4,000,000.
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL AND HOMELAND
SECURITY COUNCIL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National Se-
curity Council and the Homeland Security
Council, including services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,500,000.
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of Ad-
ministration, including services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire
of passenger motor vehicles, $94,000,000, of
which not to exceed $12,800,000 shall remain
available until expended for continued mod-
ernization of information resources within
the Executive Office of the President.
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Management and Budget, including hire of
passenger motor vehicles and services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the
provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code, and to prepare and submit the
budget of the United States Government, in
accordance with section 1105(a) of title 31,
United States Code, $101,600,000, of which not
to exceed $3,000 shall be available for official
representation expenses: Provided, That none
of the funds appropriated in this Act for the
Office of Management and Budget may be
used for the purpose of reviewing any agri-
cultural marketing orders or any activities
or regulations under the provisions of the
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of
1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided further,
That none of the funds made available for
the Office of Management and Budget by this
Act may be expended for the altering of the
transcript of actual testimony of witnesses,
except for testimony of officials of the Office
of Management and Budget, before the Com-
mittees on Appropriations or their sub-
committees: Provided further, That none of
the funds made available for the Office of
Management and Budget by this Act may be
expended for the altering of the annual work
plan developed by the Corps of Engineers for
submission to the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided in this or prior Acts shall be
used, directly or indirectly, by the Office of
Management and Budget, for evaluating or
determining if water resource project or
study reports submitted by the Chief of En-
gineers acting through the Secretary of the
Army are in compliance with all applicable
laws, regulations, and requirements relevant
to the Civil Works water resource planning
process: Provided further, That the Office of
Management and Budget shall have not more
than 60 days in which to perform budgetary
policy reviews of water resource matters on
which the Chief of Engineers has reported:
Provided further, That the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget shall notify
the appropriate authorizing and appro-
priating committees when the 60-day review
is initiated: Provided further, That if water
resource reports have not been transmitted
to the appropriate authorizing and appro-
priating committees within 15 days after the
end of the Office of Management and Budget
review period based on the notification from
the Director, Congress shall assume Office of
Management and Budget concurrence with
the report and act accordingly.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ENFORCEMENT
COORDINATOR
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordi-
nator, as authorized by title III of the
Prioritizing Resources and Organization for
Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (Public Law
110–403), including services authorized by 5
U.S.C. 3109, $1,000,000.
OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy; for research ac-
tivities pursuant to the Office of National
Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of
1998, as amended by Public Law 115–271; not
to exceed $10,000 for official reception and
representation expenses; and for participa-
tion in joint projects or in the provision of
services on matters of mutual interest with
nonprofit, research, or public organizations
or agencies, with or without reimbursement,
$18,400,000: Provided, That the Office is au-
thorized to accept, hold, administer, and uti-
lize gifts, both real and personal, public and
private, without fiscal year limitation, for
the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work
of the Office.
FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS
PROGRAM
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy’s High Intensity
Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $300,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2021,
for drug control activities consistent with
the approved strategy for each of the des-
ignated High Intensity Drug Trafficking
Areas (‘‘HIDTAs’’), of which not less than 51
percent shall be transferred to State and
local entities for drug control activities and
shall be obligated not later than 120 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided, That
up to 49 percent may be transferred to Fed-
eral agencies and departments in amounts
determined by the Director of the Office of
National Drug Control Policy, of which up to
$2,700,000 may be used for auditing services
and associated activities: Provided further,
That any unexpended funds obligated prior
to fiscal year 2018 may be used for any other
approved activities of that HIDTA, subject
to reprogramming requirements: Provided
further, That each HIDTA designated as of
September 30, 2019, shall be funded at not
less than the fiscal year 2019 base level, un-
less the Director submits to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate justification for
changes to those levels based on clearly ar-
ticulated priorities and published Office of
National Drug Control Policy performance
measures of effectiveness: Provided further,
That the Director shall notify the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the initial alloca-
tion of fiscal year 2020 funding among
HIDTAs not later than 45 days after enact-
ment of this Act, and shall notify the Com-
mittees of planned uses of discretionary
HIDTA funding, as determined in consulta-
tion with the HIDTA Directors, not later
than 90 days after enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That upon a determination
that all or part of the funds so transferred
from this appropriation are not necessary for
the purposes provided herein and upon notifi-
cation to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate, such amounts may be transferred back
to this appropriation.
OTHER FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For other drug control activities author-
ized by chapter 2 of the National Narcotics
Leadership Act of 1988 and the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy Reauthorization
Act of 1998, as amended by Public Law 115–
271, $121,851,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, which shall be available as follows:
$100,500,000 for the Drug-Free Communities
Program, of which $2,500,000 shall be made
available as directed by section 4 of Public
Law 107–82, as amended by section 8204 of
Public Law 115–271; $3,000,000 for drug court
training and technical assistance; $12,101,000
for anti-doping activities, to include United
States membership dues to the World Anti-
Doping Agency; $1,250,000 for the Model Acts
Program; and $5,000,000 for activities author-
ized by section 103 of Public Law 114–198: Pro-
vided, That amounts made available under
this heading may be transferred to other
Federal departments and agencies to carry
out such activities.
UNANTICIPATED NEEDS
For expenses necessary to enable the Presi-
dent to meet unanticipated needs, in further-
ance of the national interest, security, or de-
fense which may arise at home or abroad
during the current fiscal year, as authorized
by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OVERSIGHT AND
REFORM
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for the furtherance
of integrated, efficient, secure, and effective
uses of information technology in the Fed-
eral Government, $15,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
Budget may transfer these funds to one or
more other agencies to carry out projects to
meet these purposes.
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PRESIDENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to enable the Vice
President to provide assistance to the Presi-
dent in connection with specially assigned
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, including subsistence
expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which
shall be expended and accounted for as pro-
vided in that section; and hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $4,288,000.
OFFICIAL RESIDENCE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT
OPERATING EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the care, operation, refurnishing, im-
provement, and to the extent not otherwise
provided for, heating and lighting, including
electric power and fixtures, of the official
residence of the Vice President; the hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed
$90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 106(b)(2), $302,000:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5115
June 25, 2019
Provided, That advances, repayments, or
transfers from this appropriation may be
made to any department or agency for ex-
penses of carrying out such activities.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—EXECUTIVE OF-
FICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPRO-
PRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 201. From funds made available in this
Act under the headings ‘‘The White House’’,
‘‘Executive Residence at the White House’’,
‘‘White House Repair and Restoration’’,
‘‘Council of Economic Advisers’’, ‘‘National
Security Council and Homeland Security
Council’’, ‘‘Office of Administration’’, ‘‘Spe-
cial Assistance to the President’’, and ‘‘Offi-
cial Residence of the Vice President’’, the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget (or such other officer as the Presi-
dent may designate in writing), may, with
advance approval of the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 per-
cent of any such appropriation to any other
such appropriation, to be merged with and
available for the same time and for the same
purposes as the appropriation to which
transferred: Provided, That the amount of an
appropriation shall not be increased by more
than 50 percent by such transfers: Provided
further, That no amount shall be transferred
from ‘‘Special Assistance to the President’’
or ‘‘Official Residence of the Vice President’’
without the approval of the Vice President.
SEC. 202. (a) During fiscal year 2020, any
Executive order or Presidential memo-
randum issued or revoked by the President
shall be accompanied by a written statement
from the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget on the budgetary impact,
including costs, benefits, and revenues, of
such order or memorandum.
(b) Any such statement shall include—
(1) a narrative summary of the budgetary
impact of such order or memorandum on the
Federal Government;
(2) the impact on mandatory and discre-
tionary obligations and outlays as the result
of such order or memorandum, listed by Fed-
eral agency, for each year in the 5-fiscal-year
period beginning in fiscal year 2020; and
(3) the impact on revenues of the Federal
Government as the result of such order or
memorandum over the 5-fiscal-year period
beginning in fiscal year 2020.
(c) If an Executive order or Presidential
memorandum is issued during fiscal year
2020 due to a national emergency, the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget
may issue the statement required by sub-
section (a) not later than 15 days after the
date that such order or memorandum is
issued.
(d) The requirement for cost estimates for
Presidential memoranda shall only apply for
Presidential memoranda estimated to have a
regulatory cost in excess of $100,000,000.
SEC. 203. Not later than 10 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget
shall issue a memorandum to all Federal de-
partments, agencies, and corporations di-
recting compliance with the provisions in
title VII of this Act.
SEC. 204. (a) Beginning not later than 10
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Office of Management and Budget shall
provide to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate each document apportioning an
appropriation, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1512, ap-
proved by the Office of Management and
Budget, including any associated footnotes,
on the date of approval of such apportion-
ment by the Office of Management and Budg-
et, until the requirements of paragraph (b)
are completed.
(b) Not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget shall complete implemen-
tation of an automated system to post each
document apportioning an appropriation,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1512, including any as-
sociated footnotes, on a publicly accessible
website in a machine readable format, on the
date of approval of such form by the Office of
Management and Budget, and shall place on
such website each document apportioning an
appropriation, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1512, in-
cluding any associated footnotes, already ap-
proved by the Office of Management and
Budget in fiscal year 2020, and shall report
the date of completion of such requirements
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate.
(c) Not later than 60 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, and each month
thereafter during fiscal year 2020 and each
subsequent fiscal year, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget shall pro-
vide to the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
a report containing the bureau, account
name, appropriation name, and Treasury ac-
count fund symbol of each document re-
questing apportionment of an appropriation,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1512, that has not been
approved by the Office of Management and
Budget and that an agency initially sub-
mitted to Office of Management and Budget
30 days or more prior to the date of the re-
port.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Executive
Office of the President Appropriations Act,
2020’’.
TITLE III
THE JUDICIARY
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the operation of
the Supreme Court, as required by law, ex-
cluding care of the building and grounds, in-
cluding hire of passenger motor vehicles as
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to
exceed $10,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; and for miscellaneous
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice
may approve, $87,699,000, of which $1,500,000
shall remain available until expended.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief justice and asso-
ciate justices of the court.
CARE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS
For such expenditures as may be necessary
to enable the Architect of the Capitol to
carry out the duties imposed upon the Archi-
tect by 40 U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $15,590,000, to
remain available until expended.
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FEDERAL CIRCUIT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries of officers and employees, and
for necessary expenses of the court, as au-
thorized by law, $32,983,000.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief judge and judges
of the court.
UNITED STATES COURT OF INTERNATIONAL
TRADE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries of officers and employees of
the court, services, and necessary expenses
of the court, as authorized by law, $19,362,000.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief judge and judges
of the court.
COURTS OF APPEALS, DISTRICT COURTS, AND
OTHER JUDICIAL SERVICES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the salaries of judges of the United
States Court of Federal Claims, magistrate
judges, and all other officers and employees
of the Federal Judiciary not otherwise spe-
cifically provided for, necessary expenses of
the courts, and the purchase, rental, repair,
and cleaning of uniforms for Probation and
Pretrial Services Office staff, as authorized
by law, $5,274,383,000 (including the purchase
of firearms and ammunition); of which not to
exceed $27,817,000 shall remain available
until expended for space alteration projects
and for furniture and furnishings related to
new space alteration and construction
projects.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of circuit and district judges
(including judges of the territorial courts of
the United States), bankruptcy judges, and
justices and judges retired from office or
from regular active service.
In addition, for expenses of the United
States Court of Federal Claims associated
with processing cases under the National
Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public
Law 99–660), not to exceed $9,070,000, to be ap-
propriated from the Vaccine Injury Com-
pensation Trust Fund.
DEFENDER SERVICES
For the operation of Federal Defender or-
ganizations; the compensation and reim-
bursement of expenses of attorneys ap-
pointed to represent persons under 18 U.S.C.
3006A and 3599, and for the compensation and
reimbursement of expenses of persons fur-
nishing investigative, expert, and other serv-
ices for such representations as authorized
by law; the compensation (in accordance
with the maximums under 18 U.S.C. 3006A)
and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys
appointed to assist the court in criminal
cases where the defendant has waived rep-
resentation by counsel; the compensation
and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys
appointed to represent jurors in civil actions
for the protection of their employment, as
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d)(1); the com-
pensation and reimbursement of expenses of
attorneys appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1)
in connection with certain judicial civil for-
feiture proceedings; the compensation and
reimbursement of travel expenses of guard-
ians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C.
4100(b); and for necessary training and gen-
eral administrative expenses, $1,234,574,000 to
remain available until expended.
FEES OF JURORS AND COMMISSIONERS
For fees and expenses of jurors as author-
ized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 1876; compensation
of jury commissioners as authorized by 28
U.S.C. 1863; and compensation of commis-
sioners appointed in condemnation cases
pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. Appendix Rule
71.1(h)), $51,851,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the compensation
of land commissioners shall not exceed the
daily equivalent of the highest rate payable
under 5 U.S.C. 5332.
COURT SECURITY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, incident to the provision of protec-
tive guard services for United States court-
houses and other facilities housing Federal
court operations, and the procurement, in-
stallation, and maintenance of security sys-
tems and equipment for United States court-
houses and other facilities housing Federal
court operations, including building ingress-
egress control, inspection of mail and pack-
ages, directed security patrols, perimeter se-
curity, basic security services provided by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5116 June 25, 2019
the Federal Protective Service, and other
similar activities as authorized by section
1010 of the Judicial Improvement and Access
to Justice Act (Public Law 100–702),
$641,108,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000
shall remain available until expended, to be
expended directly or transferred to the
United States Marshals Service, which shall
be responsible for administering the Judicial
Facility Security Program consistent with
standards or guidelines agreed to by the Di-
rector of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts and the Attorney Gen-
eral.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED
STATES COURTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Administra-
tive Office of the United States Courts as au-
thorized by law, including travel as author-
ized by 31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger
motor vehicle as authorized by 31 U.S.C.
1343(b), advertising and rent in the District
of Columbia and elsewhere, $94,261,000, of
which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for
official reception and representation ex-
penses.
FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Ju-
dicial Center, as authorized by Public Law
90–219, $30,736,000; of which $1,800,000 shall re-
main available through September 30, 2021,
to provide education and training to Federal
court personnel; and of which not to exceed
$1,500 is authorized for official reception and
representation expenses.
UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the salaries and expenses necessary to
carry out the provisions of chapter 58 of title
28, United States Code, $19,685,000, of which
not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official
reception and representation expenses.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—THE JUDICIARY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 301. Appropriations and authoriza-
tions made in this title which are available
for salaries and expenses shall be available
for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
SEC. 302. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may
be transferred between such appropriations,
but no such appropriation, except ‘‘Courts of
Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial
Services, Defender Services’’ and ‘‘Courts of
Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial
Services, Fees of Jurors and Commis-
sioners’’, shall be increased by more than 10
percent by any such transfers: Provided, That
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under
sections 604 and 608 of this Act and shall not
be available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in section 608.
SEC. 303. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the salaries and expenses appro-
priation for ‘‘Courts of Appeals, District
Courts, and Other Judicial Services’’ shall be
available for official reception and represen-
tation expenses of the Judicial Conference of
the United States: Provided, That such avail-
able funds shall not exceed $11,000 and shall
be administered by the Director of the Ad-
ministrative Office of the United States
Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the
Judicial Conference.
SEC. 304. Section 3315(a) of title 40, United
States Code, shall be applied by substituting
‘‘Federal’’ for ‘‘executive’’ each place it ap-
pears.
SEC. 305. In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561–
569, and notwithstanding any other provision
of law, the United States Marshals Service
shall provide, for such courthouses as its Di-
rector may designate in consultation with
the Director of the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts, for purposes of a
pilot program, the security services that 40
U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of
Homeland Security to provide, except for the
services specified in 40 U.S.C. 1315(b)(2)(E).
For building-specific security services at
these courthouses, the Director of the Ad-
ministrative Office of the United States
Courts shall reimburse the United States
Marshals Service rather than the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
SEC. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial
Improvements Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–
650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended in the
matter following paragraph (12)—
(1) in the second sentence (relating to the
District of Kansas), by striking ‘‘28 years and
6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘29 years and 6
months’’; and
(2) in the sixth sentence (relating to the
District of Hawaii), by striking ‘‘25 years and
6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘26 years and 6
months’’.
(b) Section 406 of the Transportation,
Treasury, Housing and Urban Development,
the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act,
2006 (Public Law 109–115; 119 Stat. 2470; 28
U.S.C. 133 note) is amended in the second
sentence (relating to the eastern District of
Missouri) by striking ‘‘26 years and 6
months’’ and inserting ‘‘27 years and 6
months’’.
(c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century De-
partment of Justice Appropriations Author-
ization Act (Public Law 107–273; 28 U.S.C. 133
note), is amended—
(1) in the first sentence—
(A) by striking ‘‘the central district of
California and the western district of North
Carolina’’ and inserting ‘‘the central district
of California, the western district of North
Carolina, and the northern district of Ala-
bama’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘17 years’’ and inserting ‘‘18
years’’;
(2) in the second sentence (relating to the
central district of California), by striking
‘‘16 years and 6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘17
years and 6 months’’;
(3) in the third sentence (relating to the
western district of North Carolina), by strik-
ing ‘‘15 years’’ and inserting ‘‘16 years’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘The first vacancy in the office of district
judge in the northern district of Alabama oc-
curring 17 years or more after the confirma-
tion date of the judge named to fill the tem-
porary district judgeship created in that dis-
trict by this subsection, shall not be filled.’’.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Judiciary
Appropriations Act, 2020’’.
TITLE IV
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
FEDERAL FUNDS
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR RESIDENT TUITION
SUPPORT
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia, to be deposited into a dedicated
account, for a nationwide program to be ad-
ministered by the Mayor, for District of Co-
lumbia resident tuition support, $40,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such funds, including any interest ac-
crued thereon, may be used on behalf of eli-
gible District of Columbia residents to pay
an amount based upon the difference be-
tween in-State and out-of-State tuition at
public institutions of higher education, or to
pay up to $2,500 each year at eligible private
institutions of higher education: Provided
further, That the awarding of such funds may
be prioritized on the basis of a resident’s aca-
demic merit, the income and need of eligible
students and such other factors as may be
authorized: Provided further, That the Dis-
trict of Columbia government shall maintain
a dedicated account for the Resident Tuition
Support Program that shall consist of the
Federal funds appropriated to the Program
in this Act and any subsequent appropria-
tions, any unobligated balances from prior
fiscal years, and any interest earned in this
or any fiscal year: Provided further, That the
account shall be under the control of the
District of Columbia Chief Financial Officer,
who shall use those funds solely for the pur-
poses of carrying out the Resident Tuition
Support Program: Provided further, That the
Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall
provide a quarterly financial report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate for these
funds showing, by object class, the expendi-
tures made and the purpose therefor.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING
AND SECURITY COSTS IN THE DISTRICT OF CO-
LUMBIA
For a Federal payment of necessary ex-
penses, as determined by the Mayor of the
District of Columbia in written consultation
with the elected county or city officials of
surrounding jurisdictions, $16,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, for the costs
of providing public safety at events related
to the presence of the National Capital in
the District of Columbia, including support
requested by the Director of the United
States Secret Service in carrying out protec-
tive duties under the direction of the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and for the
costs of providing support to respond to im-
mediate and specific terrorist threats or at-
tacks in the District of Columbia or sur-
rounding jurisdictions.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA COURTS
For salaries and expenses for the District
of Columbia Courts, $278,488,000 to be allo-
cated as follows: for the District of Columbia
Court of Appeals, $14,682,000, of which not to
exceed $2,500 is for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; for the Superior Court
of the District of Columbia, $125,638,000, of
which not to exceed $2,500 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses; for the
District of Columbia Court System,
$75,518,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for
official reception and representation ex-
penses; and $62,650,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021, for capital improve-
ments for District of Columbia courthouse
facilities: Provided, That funds made avail-
able for capital improvements shall be ex-
pended consistent with the District of Co-
lumbia Courts master plan study and facili-
ties condition assessment: Provided further,
That, in addition to the amounts appro-
priated herein, fees received by the District
of Columbia Courts for administering bar ex-
aminations and processing District of Co-
lumbia bar admissions may be retained and
credited to this appropriation, to remain
available until expended, for salaries and ex-
penses associated with such activities, not-
withstanding section 450 of the District of
Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code,
sec. 1–204.50): Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, all
amounts under this heading shall be appor-
tioned quarterly by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and obligated and expended
in the same manner as funds appropriated
for salaries and expenses of other Federal
agencies: Provided further, That 30 days after
providing written notice to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate, the District of Colum-
bia Courts may reallocate not more than
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5117
June 25, 2019
$9,000,000 of the funds provided under this
heading among the items and entities funded
under this heading: Provided further, That
the Joint Committee on Judicial Adminis-
tration in the District of Columbia may, by
regulation, establish a program substan-
tially similar to the program set forth in
subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United
States Code, for employees of the District of
Columbia Courts.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR DEFENDER SERVICES IN
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payments authorized under section 11–
2604 and section 11–2605, D.C. Official Code
(relating to representation provided under
the District of Columbia Criminal Justice
Act), payments for counsel appointed in pro-
ceedings in the Family Court of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia under
chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, or
pursuant to contractual agreements to pro-
vide guardian ad litem representation, train-
ing, technical assistance, and such other
services as are necessary to improve the
quality of guardian ad litem representation,
payments for counsel appointed in adoption
proceedings under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C.
Official Code, and payments authorized
under section 21–2060, D.C. Official Code (re-
lating to services provided under the District
of Columbia Guardianship, Protective Pro-
ceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act
of 1986), $46,005,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That not more than
$20,000,000 in unobligated funds provided in
this account may be transferred to and
merged with funds made available under the
heading ‘‘Federal Payment to the District of
Columbia Courts,’’ to be available for the
same period and purposes as funds made
available under that heading for capital im-
provements to District of Columbia court-
house facilities: Provided further, That funds
provided under this heading shall be admin-
istered by the Joint Committee on Judicial
Administration in the District of Columbia:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, this appropriation
shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office
of Management and Budget and obligated
and expended in the same manner as funds
appropriated for expenses of other Federal
agencies.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE COURT SERVICES
AND OFFENDER SUPERVISION AGENCY FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
For salaries and expenses, including the
transfer and hire of motor vehicles, of the
Court Services and Offender Supervision
Agency for the District of Columbia, as au-
thorized by the National Capital Revitaliza-
tion and Self-Government Improvement Act
of 1997, $248,524,000, of which not to exceed
$2,000 is for official reception and representa-
tion expenses related to Community Super-
vision and Pretrial Services Agency pro-
grams, and of which not to exceed $25,000 is
for dues and assessments relating to the im-
plementation of the Court Services and Of-
fender Supervision Agency Interstate Super-
vision Act of 2002: Provided, That, of the
funds appropriated under this heading,
$181,065,000 shall be for necessary expenses of
Community Supervision and Sex Offender
Registration, to include expenses relating to
the supervision of adults subject to protec-
tion orders or the provision of services for or
related to such persons, of which $3,818,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2022 for costs associated with relocation
under a replacement lease for headquarters
offices, field offices, and related facilities:
Provided further, That, of the funds appro-
priated under this heading, $67,459,000 shall
be available to the Pretrial Services Agency,
of which $998,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2022 for costs associated with
relocation under a replacement lease for
headquarters offices, field offices, and re-
lated facilities: Provided further, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law, all
amounts under this heading shall be appor-
tioned quarterly by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and obligated and expended
in the same manner as funds appropriated
for salaries and expenses of other Federal
agencies: Provided further, That amounts
under this heading may be used for pro-
grammatic incentives for defendants to suc-
cessfully complete their terms of super-
vision.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA PUBLIC DEFENDER SERVICE
For salaries and expenses, including the
transfer and hire of motor vehicles, of the
District of Columbia Public Defender Serv-
ice, as authorized by the National Capital
Revitalization and Self-Government Im-
provement Act of 1997, $43,569,000, of which
$344,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022 for costs associated with relo-
cation under a replacement lease for head-
quarters offices, field offices, and related fa-
cilities: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, all amounts under
this heading shall be apportioned quarterly
by the Office of Management and Budget and
obligated and expended in the same manner
as funds appropriated for salaries and ex-
penses of Federal agencies.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
COORDINATING COUNCIL
For a Federal payment to the Criminal
Justice Coordinating Council, $2,150,000, to
remain available until expended, to support
initiatives related to the coordination of
Federal and local criminal justice resources
in the District of Columbia.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR JUDICIAL COMMISSIONS
For a Federal payment, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021, to the Commis-
sion on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure,
$325,000, and for the Judicial Nomination
Commission, $275,000.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT
For a Federal payment for a school im-
provement program in the District of Colum-
bia, $52,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for payments authorized under the
Scholarships for Opportunity and Results
Act (division C of Public Law 112–10): Pro-
vided, That, to the extent that funds are
available for opportunity scholarships and
following the priorities included in section
3006 of such Act, the Secretary of Education
shall make scholarships available to stu-
dents eligible under section 3013(3) of such
Act (Public Law 112–10; 125 Stat. 211) includ-
ing students who were not offered a scholar-
ship during any previous school year: Pro-
vided further, That within funds provided for
opportunity scholarships up to $1,200,000
shall be for the activities specified in sec-
tions 3007(b) through 3007(d) of the Act and
up to $500,000 shall be for the activities speci-
fied in section 3009 of the Act: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds made available
under this heading may be used for an oppor-
tunity scholarship for a student to attend a
school which does not certify to the Sec-
retary of Education that the student will be
provided with the same protections under
the Federal laws which are enforced by the
Office for Civil Rights of the Department of
Education which are provided to a student of
a public elementary or secondary school in
the District of Columbia and which does not
certify to the Secretary of Education that
the student and the student’s parents will be
provided with the same services, rights, and
protections under the Individuals With Dis-
abilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et
seq.) which are provided to a student and a
student’s parents of a public elementary or
secondary school in the District of Columbia,
as enumerated in Table 2 of Government Ac-
countability Office Report 18–94 (entitled
‘‘Federal Actions Needed to Ensure Parents
Are Notified About Changes in Rights for
Students with Disabilities’’), issued Novem-
ber 2017.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA NATIONAL GUARD
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia National Guard, $435,000, to remain
available until expended for the Major Gen-
eral David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Colum-
bia National Guard Retention and College
Access Program.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR TESTING AND
TREATMENT OF HIV/AIDS
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia for the testing of individuals for,
and the treatment of individuals with,
human immunodeficiency virus and acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome in the District
of Columbia, $5,000,000.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia Water and Sewer Authority,
$8,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to continue implementation of the
Combined Sewer Overflow Long-Term Plan:
Provided, That the District of Columbia
Water and Sewer Authority provides a 100
percent match for this payment.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘District of
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2020’’.
TITLE V
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
ADMINISTRATIVE CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED
STATES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States, author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., $3,100,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021, of
which not to exceed $1,000 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Consumer
Product Safety Commission, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles, services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for in-
dividuals not to exceed the per diem rate
equivalent to the maximum rate payable
under 5 U.S.C. 5376, purchase of nominal
awards to recognize non-Federal officials’
contributions to Commission activities, and
not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and
representation expenses, $135,500,000, of
which $1,300,000 shall remain available until
expended to carry out the program, includ-
ing administrative costs, required by section
1405 of the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and
Spa Safety Act (Public Law 110–140; 15 U.S.C.
8004).
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION—CONSUMER
PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
SEC. 501. During fiscal year 2020, none of
the amounts made available by this Act may
be used to finalize or implement the Safety
Standard for Recreational Off-Highway Vehi-
cles published by the Consumer Product
Safety Commission in the Federal Register
on November 19, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 68964)
until after—
(1) the National Academy of Sciences, in
consultation with the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration and the De-
partment of Defense, completes a study to
determine—
(A) the technical validity of the lateral
stability and vehicle handling requirements
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5118 June 25, 2019
proposed by such standard for purposes of re-
ducing the risk of Recreational Off-Highway
Vehicle (referred to in this section as
‘‘ROV’’) rollovers in the off-road environ-
ment, including the repeatability and repro-
ducibility of testing for compliance with
such requirements;
(B) the number of ROV rollovers that
would be prevented if the proposed require-
ments were adopted;
(C) whether there is a technical basis for
the proposal to provide information on a
point-of-sale hangtag about a ROV’s rollover
resistance on a progressive scale; and
(D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used
by the United States military if the proposed
requirements were adopted; and
(2) a report containing the results of the
study completed under paragraph (1) is deliv-
ered to—
(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate; and
(D) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (Public Law
107–252), $16,171,000, of which $1,250,000 shall
be transferred to the National Institute of
Standards and Technology for election re-
form activities authorized under the Help
America Vote Act of 2002; and of which
$2,400,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for relocation expenses.
ELECTION SECURITY GRANTS
Notwithstanding section 104(c)(2)(B) of the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
20904(c)(2)(B)), $600,000,000 is provided to the
Election Assistance Commission for nec-
essary expenses to make payments to States
for activities to improve the administration
of elections for Federal office, including to
enhance election technology and make elec-
tion security improvements, as authorized
by sections 101, 103, and 104 of such Act: Pro-
vided, That each reference to the ‘‘Adminis-
trator of General Services’’ or the ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ in sections 101 and 103 shall be
deemed to refer to the ‘‘Election Assistance
Commission’’: Provided further, That each
reference to ‘‘$5,000,000’’ in section 103 shall
be deemed to refer to ‘‘$3,000,000’’ and each
reference to ‘‘$1,000,000’’ in section 103 shall
be deemed to refer to ‘‘$600,000’’: Provided fur-
ther, That not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Election
Assistance Commission shall make the pay-
ments to States under this heading: Provided
further, That a State shall use such payment
to replace voting systems which use direct-
recording electronic voting machines with a
voting system which uses an individual, du-
rable, voter-verified paper ballot which is
marked by the voter by hand or through the
use of a non-tabulating ballot-marking de-
vice or system, so long as the voter shall
have the option to mark his or her ballot by
hand, and provides the voter with an oppor-
tunity to inspect and confirm the marked
ballot before casting (in this heading re-
ferred to as a ‘‘qualified voting system’’):
Provided further, That for purposes of deter-
mining whether a voting system is a quali-
fied voting system, a voter-verified paper
audit trail receipt generated by a direct-re-
cording electronic voting machine is not a
paper ballot: Provided further, That none of
the funds made available under this heading
may be used to purchase or obtain any vot-
ing system which is not a qualified voting
system: Provided further, That a State may
use such payment to carry out other author-
ized activities to improve the administration
of elections for Federal office only if the
State certifies to the Election Assistance
Commission that the State has replaced all
voting systems which use direct-recording
electronic voting machines with qualified
voting systems: Provided further, That not
less than 50 percent of the amount of the
payment made to a State under this heading
shall be allocated in cash or in kind to the
units of local government which are respon-
sible for the administration of elections for
Federal office in the State: Provided further,
That not later than 2 years after receiving a
payment under this heading, a State shall
make available funds for such activities in
an amount equal to 5 percent of the total
amount of the payment made to the State
under this heading.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Communications Commission, as authorized
by law, including uniforms and allowances
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902;
not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and
representation expenses; purchase and hire
of motor vehicles; special counsel fees; and
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109,
$339,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That $339,000,000 of offset-
ting collections shall be assessed and col-
lected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the
Communications Act of 1934, shall be re-
tained and used for necessary expenses, and
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated shall be reduced as such offsetting
collections are received during fiscal year
2020 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020
appropriation estimated at $0: Provided fur-
ther, That, notwithstanding 47 U.S.C.
309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the use of a com-
petitive bidding system that may be retained
and made available for obligation shall not
exceed $132,538,680 for fiscal year 2020: Pro-
vided further, That, of the amount appro-
priated under this heading, not less than
$11,105,700 shall be for the salaries and ex-
penses of the Office of Inspector General.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
SEC. 510. Section 302 of the Universal Serv-
ice Antideficiency Temporary Suspension
Act is amended by striking ‘‘December 31,
2019’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘December 31, 2020’’.
SEC. 511. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to modify, amend, or
change its rules or regulations for universal
service support payments to implement the
February 27, 2004, recommendations of the
Federal-State Joint Board on Universal
Service regarding single connection or pri-
mary line restrictions on universal service
support payments.
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$42,982,000, to be derived from the Deposit In-
surance Fund or, only when appropriate, the
FSLIC Resolution Fund.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971, $71,497,000, of which not to exceed
$5,000 shall be available for reception and
representation expenses.
FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Federal Labor Relations Author-
ity, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Num-
bered 2 of 1978, and the Civil Service Reform
Act of 1978, including services authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts
and consultants, hire of passenger motor ve-
hicles, and including official reception and
representation expenses (not to exceed $1,500)
and rental of conference rooms in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and elsewhere, $24,890,000:
Provided, That public members of the Fed-
eral Service Impasses Panel may be paid
travel expenses and per diem in lieu of sub-
sistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703)
for persons employed intermittently in the
Government service, and compensation as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds
received from fees charged to non-Federal
participants at labor-management relations
conferences shall be credited to and merged
with this account, to be available without
further appropriation for the costs of car-
rying out these conferences.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Trade Commission, including uniforms or al-
lowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
5901–5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and
not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and
representation expenses, $349,700,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available
for use to contract with a person or persons
for collection services in accordance with
the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, not to exceed $141,000,000 of offsetting
collections derived from fees collected for
premerger notification filings under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the
year of collection, shall be retained and used
for necessary expenses in this appropriation:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, not to exceed
$18,000,000 in offsetting collections derived
from fees sufficient to implement and en-
force the Telemarketing Sales Rule, promul-
gated under the Telemarketing and Con-
sumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15
U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to this
account, and be retained and used for nec-
essary expenses in this appropriation: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as such offsetting collections are re-
ceived during fiscal year 2020, so as to result
in a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation from
the general fund estimated at not more than
$190,700,000: Provided further, That none of the
funds made available to the Federal Trade
Commission may be used to implement sub-
section (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831t).
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
REAL PROPERTY ACTIVITIES
FEDERAL BUILDINGS FUND
LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF REVENUE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Amounts in the Fund, including revenues
and collections deposited into the Fund,
shall be available for necessary expenses of
real property management and related ac-
tivities not otherwise provided for, including
operation, maintenance, and protection of
federally owned and leased buildings; rental
of buildings in the District of Columbia; res-
toration of leased premises; moving govern-
mental agencies (including space adjust-
ments and telecommunications relocation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5119
June 25, 2019
expenses) in connection with the assignment,
allocation, and transfer of space; contractual
services incident to cleaning or servicing
buildings, and moving; repair and alteration
of federally owned buildings, including
grounds, approaches, and appurtenances;
care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance,
preservation, demolition, and equipment; ac-
quisition of buildings and sites by purchase,
condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by
law; acquisition of options to purchase build-
ings and sites; conversion and extension of
federally owned buildings; preliminary plan-
ning and design of projects by contract or
otherwise; construction of new buildings (in-
cluding equipment for such buildings); and
payment of principal, interest, and any other
obligations for public buildings acquired by
installment purchase and purchase contract;
in the aggregate amount of $9,059,112,000, of
which—
(1) $333,322,000 shall remain available until
expended for construction and acquisition
(including funds for sites and expenses, and
associated design and construction services)
as follows:
(A) $85,000,000 shall be for the Calexico
West Land Port of Entry, Calexico, Cali-
fornia; and
(B) $248,322,000 shall be for the San Luis I
Land Port of Entry, San Luis, Arizona:
Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of
costs on new construction and acquisition
projects may be exceeded to the extent that
savings are effected in other such projects,
but not to exceed 10 percent of the amounts
included in a transmitted prospectus, if re-
quired, unless advance approval is obtained
from the Committees on Appropriations of a
greater amount;
(2) $848,894,000 shall remain available until
expended for repairs and alterations, includ-
ing associated design and construction serv-
ices, of which—
(A) $436,837,000 is for Major Repairs and Al-
terations;
(B) $382,057,000 is for Basic Repairs and Al-
terations; and
(C) $30,000,000 is for Special Emphasis Pro-
grams for Fire and Life Safety:
Provided, That funds made available in this
or any previous Act in the Federal Buildings
Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for
prospectus projects, be limited to the
amount identified for each project, except
each project in this or any previous Act may
be increased by an amount not to exceed 10
percent unless advance approval is obtained
from the Committees on Appropriations of a
greater amount: Provided further, That addi-
tional projects for which prospectuses have
been fully approved may be funded under
this category only if advance approval is ob-
tained from the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That the amounts
provided in this or any prior Act for ‘‘Re-
pairs and Alterations’’ may be used to fund
costs associated with implementing security
improvements to buildings necessary to
meet the minimum standards for security in
accordance with current law and in compli-
ance with the reprogramming guidelines of
the appropriate Committees of the House
and Senate: Provided further, That the dif-
ference between the funds appropriated and
expended on any projects in this or any prior
Act, under the heading ‘‘Repairs and Alter-
ations’’, may be transferred to Basic Repairs
and Alterations or used to fund authorized
increases in prospectus projects: Provided
further, That the amount provided in this or
any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alter-
ations may be used to pay claims against the
Government arising from any projects under
the heading ‘‘Repairs and Alterations’’ or
used to fund authorized increases in pro-
spectus projects;
(3) $5,493,390,000 for rental of space to re-
main available until expended; and
(4) $2,383,506,000 for building operations to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That the total amount of funds made avail-
able from this Fund to the General Services
Administration shall not be available for ex-
penses of any construction, repair, alteration
and acquisition project for which a pro-
spectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has
not been approved, except that necessary
funds may be expended for each project for
required expenses for the development of a
proposed prospectus: Provided further, That
funds available in the Federal Buildings
Fund may be expended for emergency repairs
when advance approval is obtained from the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That amounts necessary to provide re-
imbursable special services to other agencies
under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to pro-
vide such reimbursable fencing, lighting,
guard booths, and other facilities on private
or other property not in Government owner-
ship or control as may be appropriate to en-
able the United States Secret Service to per-
form its protective functions pursuant to 18
U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from such rev-
enues and collections: Provided further, That
revenues and collections and any other sums
accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 2020,
excluding reimbursements under 40 U.S.C.
592(b)(2), in excess of the aggregate new
obligational authority authorized for Real
Property Activities of the Federal Buildings
Fund in this Act shall remain in the Fund
and shall not be available for expenditure ex-
cept as authorized in appropriations Acts.
GENERAL ACTIVITIES
GOVERNMENT-WIDE POLICY
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for Government-wide pol-
icy and evaluation activities associated with
the management of real and personal prop-
erty assets and certain administrative serv-
ices; Government-wide policy support re-
sponsibilities relating to acquisition, travel,
motor vehicles, information technology
management, and related technology activi-
ties; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; $65,843,000.
OPERATING EXPENSES
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for Government-wide ac-
tivities associated with utilization and dona-
tion of surplus personal property; disposal of
real property; agency-wide policy direction,
management, and communications; and serv-
ices as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $49,440,000,
of which $26,890,000 is for Real and Personal
Property Management and Disposal; and
$22,550,000 is for the Office of the Adminis-
trator, of which not to exceed $7,500 is for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses.
CIVILIAN BOARD OF CONTRACT APPEALS
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for the activities associ-
ated with the Civilian Board of Contract Ap-
peals, $9,301,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General and service authorized by 5
U.S.C. 3109, $68,000,000: Provided, That not to
exceed $50,000 shall be available for payment
for information and detection of fraud
against the Government, including payment
for recovery of stolen Government property:
Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500
shall be available for awards to employees of
other Federal agencies and private citizens
in recognition of efforts and initiatives re-
sulting in enhanced Office of Inspector Gen-
eral effectiveness.
ALLOWANCES AND OFFICE STAFF FOR FORMER
PRESIDENTS
For carrying out the provisions of the Act
of August 25, 1958 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and
Public Law 95–138, $3,851,112.
FEDERAL CITIZEN SERVICES FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Products and Programs, including services
authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 and 44 U.S.C. 3604;
and for necessary expenses in support of
interagency projects that enable the Federal
Government to enhance its ability to con-
duct activities electronically, through the
development and implementation of innova-
tive uses of information technology;
$53,400,000, to be deposited into the Federal
Citizen Services Fund: Provided, That the
previous amount may be transferred to Fed-
eral agencies to carry out the purpose of the
Federal Citizen Services Fund: Provided fur-
ther, That the appropriations, revenues, re-
imbursements, and collections deposited into
the Fund shall be available until expended
for necessary expenses of Federal Citizen
Services and other activities that enable the
Federal Government to enhance its ability
to conduct activities electronically in the
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000:
Provided further, That appropriations, reve-
nues, reimbursements, and collections accru-
ing to this Fund during fiscal year 2020 in ex-
cess of such amount shall remain in the
Fund and shall not be available for expendi-
ture except as authorized in appropriations
Acts: Provided further, That, of the total
amount appropriated, up to $5,000,000 shall be
available for support functions and full-time
hires to support activities related to the Ad-
ministration’s requirements under Title II of
the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policy-
making Act (Public Law 115–435): Provided
further, That the transfer authorities pro-
vided herein shall be in addition to any other
transfer authority provided in this Act.
PRE-ELECTION PRESIDENTIAL TRANSITION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For activities authorized by the Pre-Elec-
tion Presidential Transition Act of 2010
(Public Law 111–283) and the amendments
made by such Act, not to exceed $9,620,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021:
Provided, That such amounts may be trans-
ferred to ‘‘Acquisition Services Fund’’ or
‘‘Federal Buildings Fund’’ to reimburse obli-
gations incurred for the purposes provided
herein in fiscal years 2019 and 2020: Provided
further, that amounts made available under
this heading shall be in addition to any other
amounts available for such purposes.
TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION FUND
For the Technology Modernization Fund,
$35,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for technology-related moderniza-
tion activities.
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW IMPROVEMENT FUND
For necessary expenses of the Environ-
mental Review Improvement Fund estab-
lished pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4370m–8(d),
$6,070,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—GENERAL
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 520. Funds available to the General
Services Administration shall be available
for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
SEC. 521. Funds in the Federal Buildings
Fund made available for fiscal year 2020 for
Federal Buildings Fund activities may be
transferred between such activities only to
the extent necessary to meet program re-
quirements: Provided, That any proposed
transfers shall be approved in advance by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5120 June 25, 2019
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 522. Except as otherwise provided in
this title, funds made available by this Act
shall be used to transmit a fiscal year 2020
request for United States Courthouse con-
struction only if the request: (1) meets the
design guide standards for construction as
established and approved by the General
Services Administration, the Judicial Con-
ference of the United States, and the Office
of Management and Budget; (2) reflects the
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the
United States as set out in its approved
Courthouse Project Priorities plan; and (3)
includes a standardized courtroom utiliza-
tion study of each facility to be constructed,
replaced, or expanded.
SEC. 523. None of the funds provided in this
Act may be used to increase the amount of
occupiable square feet, provide cleaning
services, security enhancements, or any
other service usually provided through the
Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that
does not pay the rate per square foot assess-
ment for space and services as determined by
the General Services Administration in con-
sideration of the Public Buildings Amend-
ments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92–313).
SEC. 524. From funds made available under
the heading ‘‘Federal Buildings Fund, Limi-
tations on Availability of Revenue’’, claims
against the Government of less than $250,000
arising from direct construction projects and
acquisition of buildings may be liquidated
from savings effected in other construction
projects with prior notification to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 525. In any case in which the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works of the Senate adopt a resolution
granting lease authority pursuant to a pro-
spectus transmitted to Congress by the Ad-
ministrator of the General Services Adminis-
tration under 40 U.S.C. 3307, the Adminis-
trator shall ensure that the delineated area
of procurement is identical to the delineated
area included in the prospectus for all lease
agreements, except that, if the Adminis-
trator determines that the delineated area of
the procurement should not be identical to
the delineated area included in the pro-
spectus, the Administrator shall provide an
explanatory statement to each of such com-
mittees and the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate prior to exercising any lease au-
thority provided in the resolution.
SEC. 526. With respect to each project fund-
ed under the heading ‘‘Major Repairs and Al-
terations’’ or ‘‘Judiciary Capital Security
Program’’, and with respect to E–Govern-
ment projects funded under the heading
‘‘Federal Citizen Services Fund’’, the Admin-
istrator of General Services shall submit a
spending plan and explanation for each
project to be undertaken to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
HARRY S. TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For payment to the Harry S. Truman
Scholarship Foundation Trust Fund, estab-
lished by section 10 of Public Law 93–642,
$1,670,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Merit Systems Protection Board
pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2
of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978,
and the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989
(5 U.S.C. 5509 note), including services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia and else-
where, hire of passenger motor vehicles, di-
rect procurement of survey printing, and not
to exceed $2,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $44,490,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, and in ad-
dition not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, for admin-
istrative expenses to adjudicate retirement
appeals to be transferred from the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund in
amounts determined by the Merit Systems
Protection Board.
MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL
FOUNDATION
MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL
TRUST FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payment to the Morris K. Udall and
Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund, pursuant to
the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall
Foundation Act (20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.),
$1,800,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which, notwithstanding sections 8
and 9 of such Act, up to $1,000,000 shall be
available to carry out the activities author-
ized by section 6(7) of Public Law 102–259 and
section 817(a) of Public Law 106–568 (20 U.S.C.
5604(7)): Provided, That any amounts trans-
ferred during any previous fiscal year to the
Office of Inspector General of the Depart-
ment of the Interior shall remain available
until expended for audits and investigations
of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall
Foundation, consistent with the Inspector
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), and for
annual independent financial audits of the
Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foun-
dation pursuant to the Accountability of Tax
Dollars Act of 2002 (Public Law 107–289): Pro-
vided further, That amounts transferred to
the Office of Inspector General of the Depart-
ment of the Interior during any previous fis-
cal year may be transferred to the Morris K.
Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for
annual independent financial audits pursu-
ant to the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act
of 2002 (Public Law 107–289).
ENVIRONMENTAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION FUND
For payment to the Environmental Dis-
pute Resolution Fund to carry out activities
authorized in the Environmental Policy and
Conflict Resolution Act of 1998, $3,200,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses in connection with
the administration of the National Archives
and Records Administration and archived
Federal records and related activities, as
provided by law, and for expenses necessary
for the review and declassification of docu-
ments, the activities of the Public Interest
Declassification Board, the operations and
maintenance of the electronic records ar-
chives, the hire of passenger motor vehicles,
and for uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning,
$354,706,000, of which $22,000,000 shall remain
available until expended for the repair and
alteration of the National Archives facility
in College Park, Maryland, and related im-
provements necessary to enhance the Fed-
eral Government’s ability to electronically
preserve, manage, and store Government
records, and of which up to $4,097,000 shall re-
main available until expended to implement
section 3 and section 5 of the Civil Rights
Cold Case Records Collection Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–426).
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Reform Act of
2008, Public Law 110–409, 122 Stat. 4302–16
(2008), and the Inspector General Act of 1978
(5 U.S.C. App.), and for the hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $4,823,000.
REPAIRS AND RESTORATION
For the repair, alteration, and improve-
ment of archives facilities, and to provide
adequate storage for holdings, $7,500,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL HISTORICAL PUBLICATIONS AND
RECORDS COMMISSION
GRANTS PROGRAM
For necessary expenses for allocations and
grants for historical publications and records
as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, $7,000,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN
FUND
For the Community Development Revolv-
ing Loan Fund program as authorized by 42
U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 shall be
available until September 30, 2021, for tech-
nical assistance to low-income designated
credit unions.
OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Government Ethics pur-
suant to the Ethics in Government Act of
1978, the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the
Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge
Act of 2012, including services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms
in the District of Columbia and elsewhere,
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to
exceed $1,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $17,430,000.
OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan
Numbered 2 of 1978 and the Civil Service Re-
form Act of 1978, including services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examina-
tions performed for veterans by private phy-
sicians on a fee basis; rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia and else-
where; hire of passenger motor vehicles; not
to exceed $2,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; advances for reim-
bursements to applicable funds of OPM and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation for ex-
penses incurred under Executive Order No.
10422 of January 9, 1953, as amended; and pay-
ment of per diem or subsistence allowances
to employees where Voting Rights Act ac-
tivities require an employee to remain over-
night at his or her post of duty, $148,668,000:
Provided, That of the total amount made
available under this heading, not to exceed
$9,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended, for information technology infra-
structure modernization and Trust Fund
Federal Financial System migration or mod-
ernization, and shall be in addition to funds
otherwise made available for such purposes:
Provided further, That of the total amount
made available under this heading, $1,068,000
may be made available for strengthening the
capacity and capabilities of the acquisition
workforce (as defined by the Office of Fed-
eral Procurement Policy Act, as amended (41
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.)), including the recruit-
ment, hiring, training, and retention of such
workforce and information technology in
support of acquisition workforce effective-
ness or for management solutions to improve
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5121
June 25, 2019
acquisition management; and in addition
$160,398,000 for administrative expenses, to be
transferred from the appropriate trust funds
of OPM without regard to other statutes, in-
cluding direct procurement of printed mate-
rials, for the retirement and insurance pro-
grams: Provided further, That the provisions
of this appropriation shall not affect the au-
thority to use applicable trust funds as pro-
vided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B), 8958(f)(2)(A),
8988(f)(2)(A), and 9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5,
United States Code: Provided further, That no
part of this appropriation shall be available
for salaries and expenses of the Legal Exam-
ining Unit of OPM established pursuant to
Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or
any successor unit of like purpose: Provided
further, That the President’s Commission on
White House Fellows, established by Execu-
tive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may,
during fiscal year 2020, accept donations of
money, property, and personal services: Pro-
vided further, That such donations, including
those from prior years, may be used for the
development of publicity materials to pro-
vide information about the White House Fel-
lows, except that no such donations shall be
accepted for travel or reimbursement of
travel expenses, or for the salaries of em-
ployees of such Commission.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, in-
cluding services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, hire of passenger motor vehicles,
$5,000,000, and in addition, not to exceed
$25,265,000 for administrative expenses to
audit, investigate, and provide other over-
sight of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment’s retirement and insurance programs,
to be transferred from the appropriate trust
funds of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, as determined by the Inspector Gen-
eral: Provided, That the Inspector General is
authorized to rent conference rooms in the
District of Columbia and elsewhere.
OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Special Counsel pursu-
ant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of
1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978
(Public Law 95–454), the Whistleblower Pro-
tection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101–12) as
amended by Public Law 107–304, the Whistle-
blower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012
(Public Law 112–199), and the Uniformed
Services Employment and Reemployment
Rights Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–353), in-
cluding services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, payment of fees and expenses for wit-
nesses, rental of conference rooms in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; $28,000,000.
POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Postal Regu-
latory Commission in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Postal Accountability and En-
hancement Act (Public Law 109–435),
$16,615,000, to be derived by transfer from the
Postal Service Fund and expended as author-
ized by section 603(a) of such Act.
PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT
BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Privacy and
Civil Liberties Oversight Board, as author-
ized by section 1061 of the Intelligence Re-
form and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004
(42 U.S.C. 2000ee), $7,500,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the Securities
and Exchange Commission, including serv-
ices as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental
of space (to include multiple year leases) in
the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and
not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and
representation expenses, $1,850,000,000, to re-
main available until expended; of which not
less than $609,434,000 shall be for the Division
of Enforcement; of which not less than
$404,676,000 shall be for the Office of Compli-
ance Inspections and Examinations; of which
not less than $98,423,000 shall be for the Divi-
sion of Trading and Markets; of which not
less than $103,087,000 shall be for Other Pro-
gram Offices; of which not less than
$20,106,000 shall be for the Office of the In-
spector General; of which not to exceed
$73,713,000 shall be for the Division of Eco-
nomic and Risk Analysis; of which not to ex-
ceed $75,000 shall be available for a perma-
nent secretariat for the International Orga-
nization of Securities Commissions; and of
which not to exceed $100,000 shall be avail-
able for expenses for consultations and meet-
ings hosted by the Commission with foreign
governmental and other regulatory officials,
members of their delegations and staffs to
exchange views concerning securities mat-
ters, such expenses to include necessary lo-
gistic and administrative expenses and the
expenses of Commission staff and foreign
invitees in attendance including: (1) inci-
dental expenses such as meals; (2) travel and
transportation; and (3) related lodging or
subsistence.
In addition to the foregoing appropriation,
for costs associated with relocation under a
replacement lease for the Commission’s New
York regional office facilities, not to exceed
$10,524,799, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That for purposes of calcu-
lating the fee rate under section 31(j) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78ee(j)) for fiscal year 2020, all amounts ap-
propriated under this heading shall be
deemed to be the regular appropriation to
the Commission for fiscal year 2020: Provided
further, That fees and charges authorized by
section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to this
account as offsetting collections: Provided
further, That not to exceed $1,850,000,000 of
such offsetting collections shall be available
until expended for necessary expenses of this
account and not to exceed $10,524,799 of such
offsetting collections shall be available until
expended for costs under this heading associ-
ated with relocation under a replacement
lease for the Commission’s New York re-
gional office facilities: Provided further, That
the total amount appropriated under this
heading from the general fund for fiscal year
2020 shall be reduced as such offsetting fees
are received so as to result in a final total
fiscal year 2020 appropriation from the gen-
eral fund estimated at not more than $0: Pro-
vided further, That if any amount of the ap-
propriation for costs associated with reloca-
tion under a replacement lease for the Com-
mission’s New York regional office facilities
is subsequently de-obligated by the Commis-
sion, such amount that was derived from the
general fund shall be returned to the general
fund, and such amounts that were derived
from fees or assessments collected for such
purpose shall be paid to each national securi-
ties exchange and national securities asso-
ciation, respectively, in proportion to any
fees or assessments paid by such national se-
curities exchange or national securities asso-
ciation under section 31 of the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) in fiscal
year 2020.
SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Selective
Service System, including expenses of at-
tendance at meetings and of training for uni-
formed personnel assigned to the Selective
Service System, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
4101–4118 for civilian employees; hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles; services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $750 for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses;
$24,500,000: Provided, That during the current
fiscal year, the President may exempt this
appropriation from the provisions of 31
U.S.C. 1341, whenever the President deems
such action to be necessary in the interest of
national defense: Provided further, That none
of the funds appropriated by this Act may be
expended for or in connection with the in-
duction of any person into the Armed Forces
of the United States.
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, of the Small Business Administra-
tion, including hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles as authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of
title 31, United States Code, and not to ex-
ceed $3,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $272,157,000, of which
not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for
examinations, reviews, and other lender
oversight activities: Provided, That the Ad-
ministrator is authorized to charge fees to
cover the cost of publications developed by
the Small Business Administration, and cer-
tain loan program activities, including fees
authorized by section 5(b) of the Small Busi-
ness Act: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received
from all such activities shall be credited to
this account, to remain available until ex-
pended, for carrying out these purposes with-
out further appropriations: Provided further,
That the Small Business Administration
may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed
$4,000,000 and may co-sponsor activities, each
in accordance with section 132(a) of division
K of Public Law 108–447, during fiscal year
2020: Provided further, That $6,100,000 shall be
available for the Loan Modernization and
Accounting System, to be available until
September 30, 2021.
ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of programs sup-
porting entrepreneurial and small business
development, $281,800,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021: Provided, That
$150,000,000 shall be available to fund grants
for performance in fiscal year 2020 or fiscal
year 2021 as authorized by section 21 of the
Small Business Act: Provided further, That
$35,000,000 shall be for marketing, manage-
ment, and technical assistance under section
7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that make
microloans under the microloan program:
Provided further, That $20,000,000 shall be
available for grants to States to carry out
export programs that assist small business
concerns authorized under section 22(l) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 649(l)).
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$21,900,000.
OFFICE OF ADVOCACY
For necessary expenses of the Office of Ad-
vocacy in carrying out the provisions of title
II of Public Law 94–305 (15 U.S.C. 634a et seq.)
and the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5
U.S.C. 601 et seq.), $9,120,000, to remain avail-
able until expended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5122 June 25, 2019
BUSINESS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the cost of direct loans, $5,000,000, to
remain available until expended, and for the
cost of guaranteed loans as authorized by
section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (Pub-
lic Law 83–163), $100,650,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
costs, including the cost of modifying such
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided
further, That subject to section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, during fis-
cal year 2020 commitments to guarantee
loans under section 503 of the Small Business
Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed
$8,000,000,000: Provided further, That during
fiscal year 2020 commitments for general
business loans authorized under section 7(a)
of the Small Business Act shall not exceed
$30,500,000,000 for a combination of amor-
tizing term loans and the aggregated max-
imum line of credit provided by revolving
loans: Provided further, That during fiscal
year 2020 commitments for loans authorized
under subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958
(15 U.S.C. 696(7)) shall not exceed
$7,500,000,000: Provided further, That during
fiscal year 2020 commitments to guarantee
loans for debentures under section 303(b) of
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958
shall not exceed $4,000,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That during fiscal year 2020, guarantees
of trust certificates authorized by section
5(g) of the Small Business Act shall not ex-
ceed a principal amount of $12,000,000,000. In
addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan
programs, $155,150,000, which may be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriations
for Salaries and Expenses.
DISASTER LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the direct loan program authorized by sec-
tion 7(b) of the Small Business Act,
$150,000,000, to be available until expended, of
which $1,600,000 is for the Office of Inspector
General of the Small Business Administra-
tion for audits and reviews of disaster loans
and the disaster loan programs and shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priations for the Office of Inspector General;
and of which $8,400,000 is for indirect admin-
istrative expenses for the direct loan pro-
gram, which may be transferred to and
merged with the appropriations for Salaries
and Expenses.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—SMALL BUSINESS
ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 530. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Small Business Adminis-
tration in this Act may be transferred be-
tween such appropriations, but no such ap-
propriation shall be increased by more than
10 percent by any such transfers: Provided,
That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds
under section 608 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
SEC. 531. Not to exceed 3 percent of any ap-
propriation made available in this Act for
the Small Business Administration under
the headings ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’ and
‘‘Business Loans Program Account’’ may be
transferred to the ‘‘Information Technology
System Modernization and Working Capital
Fund’’ (IT WCF), as authorized by section
1077(b)(1) of title X of division A of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2018, for the purposes specified in sec-
tion 1077(b)(3) of such Act, upon the advance
approval of the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate: Provided, That amounts trans-
ferred to the IT WCF under this section shall
remain available for obligation through Sep-
tember 30, 2023.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
PAYMENT TO THE POSTAL SERVICE FUND
For payment to the Postal Service Fund
for revenue forgone on free and reduced rate
mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of
section 2401 of title 39, United States Code,
$56,711,000: Provided, That mail for overseas
voting and mail for the blind shall continue
to be free: Provided further, That 6-day deliv-
ery and rural delivery of mail shall continue
at not less than the 1983 level: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds made available
to the Postal Service by this Act shall be
used to implement any rule, regulation, or
policy of charging any officer or employee of
any State or local child support enforcement
agency, or any individual participating in a
State or local program of child support en-
forcement, a fee for information requested or
provided concerning an address of a postal
customer: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided in this Act shall be used to
consolidate or close small rural and other
small post offices: Provided further, That the
Postal Service may not destroy, and shall
continue to offer for sale, any copies of the
Multinational Species Conservation Funds
Semipostal Stamp, as authorized under the
Multinational Species Conservation Funds
Semipostal Stamp Act of 2010 (Public Law
111–241): Provided further, That the Postal
Service may not destroy, and shall continue
to offer for sale, any copies of the Alz-
heimer’s Semipostal Stamp issued under sec-
tion 416 of title 39, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That the previous proviso shall
not be construed to limit or otherwise pre-
vent the Postal Service from issuing for sale
any other semipostal stamp pursuant to such
section.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$252,000,000, to be derived by transfer from
the Postal Service Fund and expended as au-
thorized by section 603(b)(3) of the Postal Ac-
countability and Enhancement Act (Public
Law 109–435).
UNITED STATES TAX COURT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, including contract
reporting and other services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, $53,550,000, of which $1,000,000
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That travel expenses of the judges
shall be paid upon the written certificate of
the judge.
TITLE VI
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
SEC. 601. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used for the planning or execution of any
program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise
compensate, non-Federal parties intervening
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings
funded in this Act.
SEC. 602. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act shall remain available for obliga-
tion beyond the current fiscal year, nor may
any be transferred to other appropriations,
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 603. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through procurement contract pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those
contracts where such expenditures are a
matter of public record and available for
public inspection, except where otherwise
provided under existing law, or under exist-
ing Executive order issued pursuant to exist-
ing law.
SEC. 604. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 605. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be available for any activ-
ity or for paying the salary of any Govern-
ment employee where funding an activity or
paying a salary to a Government employee
would result in a decision, determination,
rule, regulation, or policy that would pro-
hibit the enforcement of section 307 of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
SEC. 606. No funds appropriated pursuant to
this Act may be expended by an entity un-
less the entity agrees that in expending the
assistance the entity will comply with chap-
ter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 607. No funds appropriated or other-
wise made available under this Act shall be
made available to any person or entity that
has been convicted of violating chapter 83 of
title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 608. Except as otherwise provided in
this Act, none of the funds provided in this
Act, provided by previous appropriations
Acts to the agencies or entities funded in
this Act that remain available for obligation
or expenditure in fiscal year 2020, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury derived
by the collection of fees and available to the
agencies funded by this Act, shall be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates a
new program; (2) eliminates a program,
project, or activity; (3) increases funds or
personnel for any program, project, or activ-
ity for which funds have been denied or re-
stricted by the Congress; (4) proposes to use
funds directed for a specific activity by the
Committee on Appropriations of either the
House of Representatives or the Senate for a
different purpose; (5) augments existing pro-
grams, projects, or activities in excess of
$1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, or
increases the number of full-time employee
equivalents by 10 percent or more; (6) re-
duces existing programs, projects, or activi-
ties by $1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is
less, or reduces the number of full-time em-
ployee equivalents by 10 percent or more; (7)
relocates an office or employees; or (8) cre-
ates, reorganizes, or restructures a branch,
division, office, bureau, board, commission,
agency, administration, or department dif-
ferent from the budget justifications sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate or the tables in the report accompanying
this Act, whichever is more detailed, unless
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate are
consulted 60 days in advance of such re-
programming or of an announcement of in-
tent relating to such reprogramming, which-
ever occurs earlier, and are notified in writ-
ing 30 days in advance of such reprogram-
ming, and approval is received from the
Committees: Provided, That not later than 60
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
each agency funded by this Act shall submit
a report to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate to establish the baseline for ap-
plication of reprogramming and transfer au-
thorities for the current fiscal year: Provided
further, That at a minimum the report shall
include: (1) a table for each appropriation,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5123
June 25, 2019
detailing both full-time employee equiva-
lents and budget authority, with separate
columns to display the prior year enacted
level, the President’s budget request, adjust-
ments made by Congress, adjustments due to
enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the
fiscal year enacted level; (2) a delineation in
the table for each appropriation and its re-
spective prior year enacted level by object
class and program, project, and activity as
detailed in this Act, in the accompanying re-
port, or in the budget appendix for the re-
spective appropriation, whichever is more
detailed, and which shall apply to all items
for which a dollar amount is specified and to
all programs for which new budget authority
is provided, as well as to discretionary
grants and discretionary grant allocations;
and (3) an identification of items of special
congressional interest: Provided further, That
the amount appropriated or limited for sala-
ries and expenses for an agency shall be re-
duced by $100,000 per day for each day after
the required date that the report has not
been submitted to the Congress.
SEC. 609. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of
unobligated balances remaining available at
the end of fiscal year 2020 from appropria-
tions made available for salaries and ex-
penses for fiscal year 2020 in this Act, shall
remain available through September 30, 2021,
for each such account for the purposes au-
thorized: Provided, That a request shall be
submitted to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate for approval prior to the expendi-
ture of such funds: Provided further, That
these requests shall be made in compliance
with reprogramming guidelines.
SEC. 610. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used by the Execu-
tive Office of the President to request—
(1) any official background investigation
report on any individual from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation; or
(2) a determination with respect to the
treatment of an organization as described in
section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 and exempt from taxation under sec-
tion 501(a) of such Code from the Department
of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue
Service.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply—
(1) in the case of an official background in-
vestigation report, if such individual has
given express written consent for such re-
quest not more than 6 months prior to the
date of such request and during the same
presidential administration; or
(2) if such request is required due to ex-
traordinary circumstances involving na-
tional security.
SEC. 611. The cost accounting standards
promulgated under chapter 15 of title 41,
United States Code shall not apply with re-
spect to a contract under the Federal Em-
ployees Health Benefits Program established
under chapter 89 of title 5, United States
Code.
SEC. 612. For the purpose of resolving liti-
gation and implementing any settlement
agreements regarding the nonforeign area
cost-of-living allowance program, the Office
of Personnel Management may accept and
utilize (without regard to any restriction on
unanticipated travel expenses imposed in an
Appropriations Act) funds made available to
the Office of Personnel Management pursu-
ant to court approval.
SEC. 613. No funds appropriated by this Act
shall be available to pay for an abortion, or
the administrative expenses in connection
with any health plan under the Federal em-
ployees health benefits program which pro-
vides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
SEC. 614. The provision of section 613 shall
not apply where the life of the mother would
be endangered if the fetus were carried to
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act
of rape or incest.
SEC. 615. In order to promote Government
access to commercial information tech-
nology, the restriction on purchasing non-
domestic articles, materials, and supplies set
forth in chapter 83 of title 41, United States
Code (popularly known as the Buy American
Act), shall not apply to the acquisition by
the Federal Government of information
technology (as defined in section 11101 of
title 40, United States Code), that is a com-
mercial item (as defined in section 103 of
title 41, United States Code).
SEC. 616. Notwithstanding section 1353 of
title 31, United States Code, no officer or em-
ployee of any regulatory agency or commis-
sion funded by this Act may accept on behalf
of that agency, nor may such agency or com-
mission accept, payment or reimbursement
from a non-Federal entity for travel, subsist-
ence, or related expenses for the purpose of
enabling an officer or employee to attend
and participate in any meeting or similar
function relating to the official duties of the
officer or employee when the entity offering
payment or reimbursement is a person or en-
tity subject to regulation by such agency or
commission, or represents a person or entity
subject to regulation by such agency or com-
mission, unless the person or entity is an or-
ganization described in section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and ex-
empt from tax under section 501(a) of such
Code.
SEC. 617. Notwithstanding section 708 of
this Act, funds made available to the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission and the
Securities and Exchange Commission by this
or any other Act may be used for the inter-
agency funding and sponsorship of a joint ad-
visory committee to advise on emerging reg-
ulatory issues.
SEC. 618. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, an Executive agency cov-
ered by this Act otherwise authorized to
enter into contracts for either leases or the
construction or alteration of real property
for office, meeting, storage, or other space
must consult with the General Services Ad-
ministration before issuing a solicitation for
offers of new leases or construction con-
tracts, and in the case of succeeding leases,
before entering into negotiations with the
current lessor.
(2) Any such agency with authority to
enter into an emergency lease may do so
during any period declared by the President
to require emergency leasing authority with
respect to such agency.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘Executive agency covered by this Act’’
means any Executive agency provided funds
by this Act, but does not include the General
Services Administration or the United
States Postal Service.
SEC. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the
following activities the amounts required
under current law:
(1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C.
102).
(2) Payments to—
(A) the Judicial Officers’ Retirement Fund
(28 U.S.C. 377(o));
(B) the Judicial Survivors’ Annuities Fund
(28 U.S.C. 376(c)); and
(C) the United States Court of Federal
Claims Judges’ Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C.
178(l)).
(3) Payment of Government contribu-
tions—
(A) with respect to the health benefits of
retired employees, as authorized by chapter
89 of title 5, United States Code, and the Re-
tired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act
(74 Stat. 849); and
(B) with respect to the life insurance bene-
fits for employees retiring after December
31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. ch. 87).
(4) Payment to finance the unfunded liabil-
ity of new and increased annuity benefits
under the Civil Service Retirement and Dis-
ability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
(5) Payment of annuities authorized to be
paid from the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund by statutory provisions
other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or
chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
(b) Nothing in this section may be con-
strued to exempt any amount appropriated
by this section from any otherwise applica-
ble limitation on the use of funds contained
in this Act.
SEC. 620. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by the Federal Trade
Commission to complete the draft report en-
titled ‘‘Interagency Working Group on Food
Marketed to Children: Preliminary Proposed
Nutrition Principles to Guide Industry Self-
Regulatory Efforts’’ unless the Interagency
Working Group on Food Marketed to Chil-
dren complies with Executive Order No.
13563.
SEC. 621. None of the funds in this Act may
be used for the Director of the Office of Per-
sonnel Management to award a contract,
enter an extension of, or exercise an option
on a contract to a contractor conducting the
final quality review processes for back-
ground investigation fieldwork services or
background investigation support services
that, as of the date of the award of the con-
tract, are being conducted by that con-
tractor.
SEC. 622. (a) The head of each executive
branch agency funded by this Act shall en-
sure that the Chief Information Officer of
the agency has the authority to participate
in decisions regarding the budget planning
process related to information technology.
(b) Amounts appropriated for any execu-
tive branch agency funded by this Act that
are available for information technology
shall be allocated within the agency, con-
sistent with the provisions of appropriations
Acts and budget guidelines and recommenda-
tions from the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, in such manner as
specified by, or approved by, the Chief Infor-
mation Officer of the agency in consultation
with the Chief Financial Officer of the agen-
cy and budget officials.
SEC. 623. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used in contravention of
chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 44, United States
Code.
SEC. 624. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by a governmental
entity to require the disclosure by a provider
of electronic communication service to the
public or remote computing service of the
contents of a wire or electronic communica-
tion that is in electronic storage with the
provider (as such terms are defined in sec-
tions 2510 and 2711 of title 18, United States
Code) in a manner that violates the Fourth
Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
SEC. 625. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to modify, amend, or
change the rules or regulations of the Com-
mission for universal service high-cost sup-
port for competitive eligible telecommuni-
cations carriers in a way that is inconsistent
with paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of section
54.307 of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, as in effect on July 15, 2015: Provided,
That this section shall not prohibit the Com-
mission from considering, developing, or
adopting other support mechanisms as an al-
ternative to Mobility Fund Phase II.
SEC. 626. No funds provided in this Act
shall be used to deny an Inspector General
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5124 June 25, 2019
funded under this Act timely access to any
records, documents, or other materials avail-
able to the department or agency over which
that Inspector General has responsibilities
under the Inspector General Act of 1978, or to
prevent or impede that Inspector General’s
access to such records, documents, or other
materials, under any provision of law, except
a provision of law that expressly refers to
the Inspector General and expressly limits
the Inspector General’s right of access. A de-
partment or agency covered by this section
shall provide its Inspector General with ac-
cess to all such records, documents, and
other materials in a timely manner. Each In-
spector General shall ensure compliance
with statutory limitations on disclosure rel-
evant to the information provided by the es-
tablishment over which that Inspector Gen-
eral has responsibilities under the Inspector
General Act of 1978. Each Inspector General
covered by this section shall report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 5
calendar days any failures to comply with
this requirement.
SEC. 627. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, adjudication ac-
tivities, or other law enforcement- or victim
assistance-related activity.
SEC. 628. None of the funds appropriated or
other-wise made available by this Act may
be used to pay award or incentive fees for
contractors whose performance has been
judged to be below satisfactory, behind
schedule, over budget, or has failed to meet
the basic requirements of a contract, unless
the Agency determines that any such devi-
ations are due to unforeseeable events, gov-
ernment-driven scope changes, or are not
significant within the overall scope of the
project and/or program and unless such
awards or incentive fees are consistent with
16.401(e)(2) of the Federal Acquisition Regu-
lation.
SEC. 629. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able under this Act may be used to pay for
travel and conference activities that result
in a total cost to an Executive branch de-
partment, agency, board or commission of
more than $500,000 at any single conference
unless the agency or entity determines that
such attendance is in the national interest
and advance notice is transmitted to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate that in-
cludes the basis of that determination.
(b) None of the funds made available under
this Act may be used to pay for the travel to
or attendance of more than 50 employees,
who are stationed in the United States, at
any single conference occurring outside the
United States unless the agency or entity de-
termines that such attendance is in the na-
tional interest and advance notice is trans-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate that includes the basis of that deter-
mination.
SEC. 630. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used for first-class or
business-class travel by the employees of ex-
ecutive branch agencies funded by this Act
in contravention of sections 301–10.122
through 301–10.125 of title 41, Code of Federal
Regulations.
SEC. 631. In addition to any amounts appro-
priated or otherwise made available for ex-
penses related to enhancements to
www.oversight.gov, $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be provided
for an additional amount for such purpose to
the Inspectors General Council Fund estab-
lished pursuant to Section 11(c)(3)(B) of the
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.):
Provided, That these amounts shall be in ad-
dition to any amounts or any authority
available to the Council of the Inspectors
General on Integrity and Efficiency under
section 11 of the Inspector General Act of
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
SEC. 632. None of the funds made available
by this Act or any other Act may be obli-
gated or expended—
(1) to reorganize or transfer any function
or authority of the Office of Personnel Man-
agement to the General Services Adminis-
tration or the Office of Management and
Budget; or
(2) to enter into or carry out any outsourc-
ing or interagency agreement between the
Office of Personnel Management and the
General Services Administration not in ef-
fect before October 1, 2018.
SEC. 633. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to penalize a finan-
cial institution solely because the institu-
tion provides financial services to an entity
that is a manufacturer, a producer, or a per-
son that participates in any business or or-
ganized activity that involves handling
marijuana, marijuana products, or mari-
juana proceeds, and engages in such activity
pursuant to a law established by a State, po-
litical subdivision of a State, or Indian
Tribe: Provided, That the term ‘‘State’’
means each of the several States, the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and any territory or pos-
session of the United States.
SEC. 634. None of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to pro-
pose, promulgate, or implement any rule,
principle, policy, standard, or guidance, or
take any other action with respect to,
changing the 2017 methodology prescribed by
the Office of Management and Budget for de-
termining the Official Poverty Measure.
SEC. 635. Of the unobligated balances from
prior year appropriations available under the
heading ‘‘Small Business Administration—
Business Loans Program Account’’ heading,
$16,369,000 are hereby permanently rescinded:
Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded
under this section from amounts that were
designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to a concurrent reso-
lution on the budget or the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—GOVERNMENT-
WIDE
DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES, AND CORPORATIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 701. No department, agency, or instru-
mentality of the United States receiving ap-
propriated funds under this or any other Act
for fiscal year 2020 shall obligate or expend
any such funds, unless such department,
agency, or instrumentality has in place, and
will continue to administer in good faith, a
written policy designed to ensure that all of
its workplaces are free from the illegal use,
possession, or distribution of controlled sub-
stances (as defined in the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers
and employees of such department, agency,
or instrumentality.
SEC. 702. Unless otherwise specifically pro-
vided, the maximum amount allowable dur-
ing the current fiscal year in accordance
with subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United
States Code, for the purchase of any pas-
senger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, am-
bulances, law enforcement vehicles, protec-
tive vehicles, and undercover surveillance
vehicles), is hereby fixed at $19,947 except
station wagons for which the maximum shall
be $19,997: Provided, That these limits may be
exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-
type vehicles: Provided further, That the lim-
its set forth in this section may not be ex-
ceeded by more than 5 percent for electric or
hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration
under the provisions of the Electric and Hy-
brid Vehicle Research, Development, and
Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further,
That the limits set forth in this section may
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant
to Public Law 101–549 over the cost of com-
parable conventionally fueled vehicles: Pro-
vided further, That the limits set forth in this
section shall not apply to any vehicle that is
a commercial item and which operates on al-
ternative fuel, including but not limited to
electric, plug-in hybrid electric, and hydro-
gen fuel cell vehicles.
SEC. 703. Appropriations of the executive
departments and independent establishments
for the current fiscal year available for ex-
penses of travel, or for the expenses of the
activity concerned, are hereby made avail-
able for quarters allowances and cost-of-liv-
ing allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C.
5922–5924.
SEC. 704. Unless otherwise specified in law
during the current fiscal year, no part of any
appropriation contained in this or any other
Act shall be used to pay the compensation of
any officer or employee of the Government
of the United States (including any agency
the majority of the stock of which is owned
by the Government of the United States)
whose post of duty is in the continental
United States unless such person: (1) is a cit-
izen of the United States; (2) is a person who
is lawfully admitted for permanent residence
and is seeking citizenship as outlined in 8
U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who is
admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or
is granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and has
filed a declaration of intention to become a
lawful permanent resident and then a citizen
when eligible; (4) is a person who owes alle-
giance to the United States; or (5) is a person
who is authorized to be employed in the
United States pursuant to the Deferred Ac-
tion for Childhood Arrivals program estab-
lished under the memorandum of the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security dated June 15,
2012: Provided, That for purposes of this sec-
tion, affidavits signed by any such person
shall be considered prima facie evidence that
the requirements of this section with respect
to his or her status are being complied with:
Provided further, That for purposes of sub-
sections (2) and (3) such affidavits shall be
submitted prior to employment and updated
thereafter as necessary: Provided further,
That any person making a false affidavit
shall be guilty of a felony, and upon convic-
tion, shall be fined no more than $4,000 or
imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both:
Provided further, That the above penal clause
shall be in addition to, and not in substi-
tution for, any other provisions of existing
law: Provided further, That any payment
made to any officer or employee contrary to
the provisions of this section shall be recov-
erable in action by the Federal Government:
Provided further, That this section shall not
apply to any person who is an officer or em-
ployee of the Government of the United
States on the date of enactment of this Act,
or to international broadcasters employed by
the Broadcasting Board of Governors, or to
temporary employment of translators, or to
temporary employment in the field service
(not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emer-
gencies: Provided further, That this section
does not apply to the employment as
Wildland firefighters for not more than 120
days of nonresident aliens employed by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5125
June 25, 2019
Department of the Interior or the USDA For-
est Service pursuant to an agreement with
another country.
SEC. 705. Appropriations available to any
department or agency during the current fis-
cal year for necessary expenses, including
maintenance or operating expenses, shall
also be available for payment to the General
Services Administration for charges for
space and services and those expenses of ren-
ovation and alteration of buildings and fa-
cilities which constitute public improve-
ments performed in accordance with the
Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479),
the Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86
Stat. 216), or other applicable law.
SEC. 706. In addition to funds provided in
this or any other Act, all Federal agencies
are authorized to receive and use funds re-
sulting from the sale of materials, including
Federal records disposed of pursuant to a
records schedule recovered through recycling
or waste prevention programs. Such funds
shall be available until expended for the fol-
lowing purposes:
(1) Acquisition, waste reduction and pre-
vention, and recycling programs as described
in Executive Order No. 13834 (May 17, 2018),
including any such programs adopted prior
to the effective date of the Executive order.
(2) Other Federal agency environmental
management programs, including, but not
limited to, the development and implemen-
tation of hazardous waste management and
pollution prevention programs.
(3) Other employee programs as authorized
by law or as deemed appropriate by the head
of the Federal agency.
SEC. 707. Funds made available by this or
any other Act for administrative expenses in
the current fiscal year of the corporations
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31,
United States Code, shall be available, in ad-
dition to objects for which such funds are
otherwise available, for rent in the District
of Columbia; services in accordance with 5
U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under
this head, all the provisions of which shall be
applicable to the expenditure of such funds
unless otherwise specified in the Act by
which they are made available: Provided,
That in the event any functions budgeted as
administrative expenses are subsequently
transferred to or paid from other funds, the
limitations on administrative expenses shall
be correspondingly reduced.
SEC. 708. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be
available for interagency financing of boards
(except Federal Executive Boards), commis-
sions, councils, committees, or similar
groups (whether or not they are interagency
entities) which do not have a prior and spe-
cific statutory approval to receive financial
support from more than one agency or in-
strumentality.
SEC. 709. None of the funds made available
pursuant to the provisions of this or any
other Act shall be used to implement, admin-
ister, or enforce any regulation which has
been disapproved pursuant to a joint resolu-
tion duly adopted in accordance with the ap-
plicable law of the United States.
SEC. 710. (a) During the period in which an
individual is the head of a department or an
agency, or occupies a position in the Federal
Government that requires confirmation by
the Senate, no funds may be obligated or ex-
pended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or re-
decorate the office of such individual, or to
purchase furniture or make improvements
for any such office, unless advance notice of
such furnishing or redecoration is trans-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate.
(b) The notification required under sub-
section (a) shall include a justification for
any expense that relates to health and safe-
ty, an explanation of how the expenses align
with and advance the agency mission, and a
report that includes the following:
(1) Whether a hiring freeze is in place at
the agency.
(2) Information on agency staffing levels,
including a list of positions that have been
vacant for over 120 days, and an explanation
as to what barriers or disruptions have pre-
vented such positions from being filled.
(3) Any delays longer than 30 days in the
administration of grants with the potential
to impact public health or safety.
(4) The number of pending FOIA requests,
including the number of requests that the
agency failed to respond to within 20 days of
initial receipt.
(5) A list of outstanding recommendations
from the Government Accountability Office
on how to improve agency operations.
(c) Any individual found in violation of
this section, as determined by an agency in-
spector general or the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget, shall pay, into
the general fund of the Treasury, an amount
equal to the expenses obligated or expended
in excess of $5,000, plus interest (calculated
at the rate equal to the interest rate for a
Federal Direct PLUS Loan, in accordance
with 20 U.S.C. 1087(e)).
(d) For the purposes of this section, the
term ‘‘office’’ shall include the entire suite
of offices assigned to the individual, as well
as any other space used primarily by the in-
dividual or the use of which is directly con-
trolled by the individual.
SEC. 711. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or
section 708 of this Act, funds made available
for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act shall be available for the inter-
agency funding of national security and
emergency preparedness telecommunications
initiatives which benefit multiple Federal
departments, agencies, or entities, as pro-
vided by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6,
2012).
SEC. 712. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be obli-
gated or expended by any department, agen-
cy, or other instrumentality of the Federal
Government to pay the salaries or expenses
of any individual appointed to a position of
a confidential or policy-determining char-
acter that is excepted from the competitive
service under section 3302 of title 5, United
States Code, (pursuant to schedule C of sub-
part C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of
Federal Regulations) unless the head of the
applicable department, agency, or other in-
strumentality employing such schedule C in-
dividual certifies to the Director of the Of-
fice of Personnel Management that the
schedule C position occupied by the indi-
vidual was not created solely or primarily in
order to detail the individual to the White
House.
(b) The provisions of this section shall not
apply to Federal employees or members of
the armed forces detailed to or from an ele-
ment of the intelligence community (as that
term is defined under section 3(4) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3003(4))).
SEC. 713. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be
available for the payment of the salary of
any officer or employee of the Federal Gov-
ernment, who—
(1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or
threatens to prohibit or prevent, any other
officer or employee of the Federal Govern-
ment from having any direct oral or written
communication or contact with any Member,
committee, or subcommittee of the Congress
in connection with any matter pertaining to
the employment of such other officer or em-
ployee or pertaining to the department or
agency of such other officer or employee in
any way, irrespective of whether such com-
munication or contact is at the initiative of
such other officer or employee or in response
to the request or inquiry of such Member,
committee, or subcommittee; or
(2) removes, suspends from duty without
pay, demotes, reduces in rank, seniority, sta-
tus, pay, or performance or efficiency rating,
denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns,
transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in re-
gard to any employment right, entitlement,
or benefit, or any term or condition of em-
ployment of, any other officer or employee
of the Federal Government, or attempts or
threatens to commit any of the foregoing ac-
tions with respect to such other officer or
employee, by reason of any communication
or contact of such other officer or employee
with any Member, committee, or sub-
committee of the Congress as described in
paragraph (1).
SEC. 714. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this or any other Act may be obli-
gated or expended for any employee training
that—
(1) does not meet identified needs for
knowledge, skills, and abilities bearing di-
rectly upon the performance of official du-
ties;
(2) contains elements likely to induce high
levels of emotional response or psychological
stress in some participants;
(3) does not require prior employee notifi-
cation of the content and methods to be used
in the training and written end of course
evaluation;
(4) contains any methods or content associ-
ated with religious or quasi-religious belief
systems or ‘‘new age’’ belief systems as de-
fined in Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission Notice N–915.022, dated Sep-
tember 2, 1988; or
(5) is offensive to, or designed to change,
participants’ personal values or lifestyle out-
side the workplace.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict, or otherwise preclude an agency
from conducting training bearing directly
upon the performance of official duties.
SEC. 715. No part of any funds appropriated
in this or any other Act shall be used by an
agency of the executive branch, other than
for normal and recognized executive-legisla-
tive relationships, for publicity or propa-
ganda purposes, and for the preparation, dis-
tribution or use of any kit, pamphlet, book-
let, publication, radio, television, or film
presentation designed to support or defeat
legislation pending before the Congress, ex-
cept in presentation to the Congress itself.
SEC. 716. None of the funds appropriated by
this or any other Act may be used by an
agency to provide a Federal employee’s
home address to any labor organization ex-
cept when the employee has authorized such
disclosure or when such disclosure has been
ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 717. None of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to pro-
vide any non-public information such as
mailing, telephone, or electronic mailing
lists to any person or any organization out-
side of the Federal Government without the
approval of the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate.
SEC. 718. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be used
directly or indirectly, including by private
contractor, for publicity or propaganda pur-
poses within the United States not here-
tofore authorized by Congress.
SEC. 719. (a) In this section, the term
‘‘agency’’—
(1) means an Executive agency, as defined
under 5 U.S.C. 105; and
(2) includes a military department, as de-
fined under section 102 of such title, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5126 June 25, 2019
United States Postal Service, and the Postal
Regulatory Commission.
(b) Unless authorized in accordance with
law or regulations to use such time for other
purposes, an employee of an agency shall use
official time in an honest effort to perform
official duties. An employee not under a
leave system, including a Presidential ap-
pointee exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has
an obligation to expend an honest effort and
a reasonable proportion of such employee’s
time in the performance of official duties.
SEC. 720. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346
and section 708 of this Act, funds made avail-
able for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act to any department or agency,
which is a member of the Federal Account-
ing Standards Advisory Board (FASAB),
shall be available to finance an appropriate
share of FASAB administrative costs.
SEC. 721. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346
and section 708 of this Act, the head of each
Executive department and agency is hereby
authorized to transfer to or reimburse ‘‘Gen-
eral Services Administration, Government-
wide Policy’’ with the approval of the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget,
funds made available for the current fiscal
year by this or any other Act, including re-
bates from charge card and other contracts:
Provided, That these funds shall be adminis-
tered by the Administrator of General Serv-
ices to support Government-wide and other
multi-agency financial, information tech-
nology, procurement, and other management
innovations, initiatives, and activities, in-
cluding improving coordination and reducing
duplication, as approved by the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, in
consultation with the appropriate inter-
agency and multi-agency groups designated
by the Director (including the President’s
Management Council for overall manage-
ment improvement initiatives, the Chief Fi-
nancial Officers Council for financial man-
agement initiatives, the Chief Information
Officers Council for information technology
initiatives, the Chief Human Capital Officers
Council for human capital initiatives, the
Chief Acquisition Officers Council for pro-
curement initiatives, and the Performance
Improvement Council for performance im-
provement initiatives): Provided further,
That the total funds transferred or reim-
bursed shall not exceed $15,000,000 to improve
coordination, reduce duplication, and for
other activities related to Federal Govern-
ment Priority Goals established by 31 U.S.C.
1120, and not to exceed $17,000,000 for Govern-
ment-Wide innovations, initiatives, and ac-
tivities: Provided further, That the funds
transferred to or for reimbursement of ‘‘Gen-
eral Services Administration, Government-
wide Policy’’ during fiscal year 2020 shall re-
main available for obligation through Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided further, That such
transfers or reimbursements may only be
made after 15 days following notification of
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate by
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.
SEC. 722. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, a woman may breastfeed her
child at any location in a Federal building or
on Federal property, if the woman and her
child are otherwise authorized to be present
at the location.
SEC. 723. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or
section 708 of this Act, funds made available
for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act shall be available for the inter-
agency funding of specific projects, work-
shops, studies, and similar efforts to carry
out the purposes of the National Science and
Technology Council (authorized by Execu-
tive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple
Federal departments, agencies, or entities:
Provided, That the Office of Management and
Budget shall provide a report describing the
budget of and resources connected with the
National Science and Technology Council to
the Committees on Appropriations, the
House Committee on Science and Tech-
nology, and the Senate Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation 90 days
after enactment of this Act.
SEC. 724. Any request for proposals, solici-
tation, grant application, form, notification,
press release, or other publications involving
the distribution of Federal funds shall com-
ply with any relevant requirements in part
200 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations:
Provided, That this section shall apply to di-
rect payments, formula funds, and grants re-
ceived by a State receiving Federal funds.
SEC. 725. (a) PROHIBITION OF FEDERAL AGEN-
CY MONITORING OF INDIVIDUALS’ INTERNET
USE.—None of the funds made available in
this or any other Act may be used by any
Federal agency—
(1) to collect, review, or create any aggre-
gation of data, derived from any means, that
includes any personally identifiable informa-
tion relating to an individual’s access to or
use of any Federal Government Internet site
of the agency; or
(2) to enter into any agreement with a
third party (including another government
agency) to collect, review, or obtain any ag-
gregation of data, derived from any means,
that includes any personally identifiable in-
formation relating to an individual’s access
to or use of any nongovernmental Internet
site.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitations estab-
lished in subsection (a) shall not apply to—
(1) any record of aggregate data that does
not identify particular persons;
(2) any voluntary submission of personally
identifiable information;
(3) any action taken for law enforcement,
regulatory, or supervisory purposes, in ac-
cordance with applicable law; or
(4) any action described in subsection (a)(1)
that is a system security action taken by the
operator of an Internet site and is nec-
essarily incident to providing the Internet
site services or to protecting the rights or
property of the provider of the Internet site.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this
section:
(1) The term ‘‘regulatory’’ means agency
actions to implement, interpret or enforce
authorities provided in law.
(2) The term ‘‘supervisory’’ means exami-
nations of the agency’s supervised institu-
tions, including assessing safety and sound-
ness, overall financial condition, manage-
ment practices and policies and compliance
with applicable standards as provided in law.
SEC. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used to enter into or
renew a contract which includes a provision
providing prescription drug coverage, except
where the contract also includes a provision
for contraceptive coverage.
(b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a
contract with—
(1) any of the following religious plans:
(A) Personal Care’s HMO; and
(B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
(2) any existing or future plan, if the car-
rier for the plan objects to such coverage on
the basis of religious beliefs.
(c) In implementing this section, any plan
that enters into or renews a contract under
this section may not subject any individual
to discrimination on the basis that the indi-
vidual refuses to prescribe or otherwise pro-
vide for contraceptives because such activi-
ties would be contrary to the individual’s re-
ligious beliefs or moral convictions.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to require coverage of abortion or
abortion-related services.
SEC. 727. The United States is committed
to ensuring the health of its Olympic, Pan
American, and Paralympic athletes, and sup-
ports the strict adherence to anti-doping in
sport through testing, adjudication, edu-
cation, and research as performed by nation-
ally recognized oversight authorities.
SEC. 728. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds appropriated for official
travel to Federal departments and agencies
may be used by such departments and agen-
cies, if consistent with Office of Management
and Budget Circular A–126 regarding official
travel for Government personnel, to partici-
pate in the fractional aircraft ownership
pilot program.
SEC. 729. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds appropriated or
made available under this or any other ap-
propriations Act may be used to implement
or enforce restrictions or limitations on the
Coast Guard Congressional Fellowship Pro-
gram, or to implement the proposed regula-
tions of the Office of Personnel Management
to add sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part
300 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regula-
tions, published in the Federal Register, vol-
ume 68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (re-
lating to the detail of executive branch em-
ployees to the legislative branch).
SEC. 730. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no executive branch agency shall
purchase, construct, or lease any additional
facilities, except within or contiguous to ex-
isting locations, to be used for the purpose of
conducting Federal law enforcement train-
ing without the advance approval of the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, except
that the Federal Law Enforcement Training
Center is authorized to obtain the temporary
use of additional facilities by lease, contract,
or other agreement for training which can-
not be accommodated in existing Center fa-
cilities.
SEC. 731. Unless otherwise authorized by
existing law, none of the funds provided in
this or any other Act may be used by an ex-
ecutive branch agency to produce any pre-
packaged news story intended for broadcast
or distribution in the United States, unless
the story includes a clear notification within
the text or audio of the prepackaged news
story that the prepackaged news story was
prepared or funded by that executive branch
agency.
SEC. 732. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used in contravention of
section 552a of title 5, United States Code
(popularly known as the Privacy Act), and
regulations implementing that section.
SEC. 733. (a) IN GENERAL.—None of the
funds appropriated or otherwise made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be used for
any Federal Government contract with any
foreign incorporated entity which is treated
as an inverted domestic corporation under
section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary of
such an entity.
(b) WAIVERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any Secretary shall waive
subsection (a) with respect to any Federal
Government contract under the authority of
such Secretary if the Secretary determines
that the waiver is required in the interest of
national security.
(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Any Secretary
issuing a waiver under paragraph (1) shall re-
port such issuance to Congress.
(c) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not
apply to any Federal Government contract
entered into before the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, or to any task order issued
pursuant to such contract.
SEC. 734. During fiscal year 2020, for each
employee who—
(1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or
8414(b)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5127
June 25, 2019
(2) retires under any other provision of
subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of
such title 5 and receives a payment as an in-
centive to separate, the separating agency
shall remit to the Civil Service Retirement
and Disability Fund an amount equal to the
Office of Personnel Management’s average
unit cost of processing a retirement claim
for the preceding fiscal year. Such amounts
shall be available until expended to the Of-
fice of Personnel Management and shall be
deemed to be an administrative expense
under section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United
States Code.
SEC. 735. None of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to pay
for the painting of a portrait of an officer or
employee of the Federal government, includ-
ing the President, the Vice President, a
member of Congress (including a Delegate or
a Resident Commissioner to Congress), the
head of an executive branch agency (as de-
fined in section 133 of title 41, United States
Code), or the head of an office of the legisla-
tive branch.
SEC. 736. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, and except as otherwise
provided in this section, no part of any of the
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2020, by
this or any other Act, may be used to pay
any prevailing rate employee described in
section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States
Code—
(A) during the period from the date of expi-
ration of the limitation imposed by the com-
parable section for the previous fiscal years
until the normal effective date of the appli-
cable wage survey adjustment that is to take
effect in fiscal year 2020, in an amount that
exceeds the rate payable for the applicable
grade and step of the applicable wage sched-
ule in accordance with such section; and
(B) during the period consisting of the re-
mainder of fiscal year 2020, in an amount
that exceeds, as a result of a wage survey ad-
justment, the rate payable under subpara-
graph (A) by more than the sum of—
(i) the percentage adjustment taking effect
in fiscal year 2020 under section 5303 of title
5, United States Code, in the rates of pay
under the General Schedule; and
(ii) the difference between the overall aver-
age percentage of the locality-based com-
parability payments taking effect in fiscal
year 2020 under section 5304 of such title
(whether by adjustment or otherwise), and
the overall average percentage of such pay-
ments which was effective in the previous
fiscal year under such section.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no prevailing rate employee described in
subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2)
of title 5, United States Code, and no em-
ployee covered by section 5348 of such title,
may be paid during the periods for which
paragraph (1) is in effect at a rate that ex-
ceeds the rates that would be payable under
paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable
to such employee.
(3) For the purposes of this subsection, the
rates payable to an employee who is covered
by this subsection and who is paid from a
schedule not in existence on September 30,
2019, shall be determined under regulations
prescribed by the Office of Personnel Man-
agement.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, rates of premium pay for employees sub-
ject to this subsection may not be changed
from the rates in effect on September 30,
2019, except to the extent determined by the
Office of Personnel Management to be con-
sistent with the purpose of this subsection.
(5) This subsection shall apply with respect
to pay for service performed after September
30, 2019.
(6) For the purpose of administering any
provision of law (including any rule or regu-
lation that provides premium pay, retire-
ment, life insurance, or any other employee
benefit) that requires any deduction or con-
tribution, or that imposes any requirement
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary
or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay
payable after the application of this sub-
section shall be treated as the rate of salary
or basic pay.
(7) Nothing in this subsection shall be con-
sidered to permit or require the payment to
any employee covered by this subsection at a
rate in excess of the rate that would be pay-
able were this subsection not in effect.
(8) The Office of Personnel Management
may provide for exceptions to the limita-
tions imposed by this subsection if the Office
determines that such exceptions are nec-
essary to ensure the recruitment or reten-
tion of qualified employees.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the ad-
justment in rates of basic pay for the statu-
tory pay systems that take place in fiscal
year 2020 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title
5, United States Code, shall be—
(1) not less than the percentage received by
employees in the same location whose rates
of basic pay are adjusted pursuant to the
statutory pay systems under sections 5303
and 5304 of title 5, United States Code: Pro-
vided, That prevailing rate employees at lo-
cations where there are no employees whose
pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303
and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, and
prevailing rate employees described in sec-
tion 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code,
shall be considered to be located in the pay
locality designated as ‘‘Rest of United
States’’ pursuant to section 5304 of title 5,
United States Code, for purposes of this sub-
section; and
(2) effective as of the first day of the first
applicable pay period beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2019.
SEC. 737. (a) The head of any Executive
branch department, agency, board, commis-
sion, or office funded by this or any other ap-
propriations Act shall submit annual reports
to the Inspector General or senior ethics offi-
cial for any entity without an Inspector Gen-
eral, regarding the costs and contracting
procedures related to each conference held
by any such department, agency, board, com-
mission, or office during fiscal year 2020 for
which the cost to the United States Govern-
ment was more than $100,000.
(b) Each report submitted shall include, for
each conference described in subsection (a)
held during the applicable period—
(1) a description of its purpose;
(2) the number of participants attending;
(3) a detailed statement of the costs to the
United States Government, including—
(A) the cost of any food or beverages;
(B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
(C) the cost of employee or contractor
travel to and from the conference; and
(D) a discussion of the methodology used
to determine which costs relate to the con-
ference; and
(4) a description of the contracting proce-
dures used including—
(A) whether contracts were awarded on a
competitive basis; and
(B) a discussion of any cost comparison
conducted by the departmental component
or office in evaluating potential contractors
for the conference.
(c) Within 15 days after the end of a quar-
ter, the head of any such department, agen-
cy, board, commission, or office shall notify
the Inspector General or senior ethics offi-
cial for any entity without an Inspector Gen-
eral, of the date, location, and number of em-
ployees attending a conference held by any
Executive branch department, agency, board,
commission, or office funded by this or any
other appropriations Act during fiscal year
2020 for which the cost to the United States
Government was more than $20,000.
(d) A grant or contract funded by amounts
appropriated by this or any other appropria-
tions Act may not be used for the purpose of
defraying the costs of a conference described
in subsection (c) that is not directly and pro-
grammatically related to the purpose for
which the grant or contract was awarded,
such as a conference held in connection with
planning, training, assessment, review, or
other routine purposes related to a project
funded by the grant or contract.
(e) None of the funds made available in this
or any other appropriations Act may be used
for travel and conference activities that are
not in compliance with Office of Manage-
ment and Budget Memorandum M–12–12
dated May 11, 2012 or any subsequent revi-
sions to that memorandum.
SEC. 738. None of the funds made available
in this or any other appropriations Act may
be used to increase, eliminate, or reduce
funding for a program, project, or activity as
proposed in the President’s budget request
for a fiscal year until such proposed change
is subsequently enacted in an appropriation
Act, or unless such change is made pursuant
to the reprogramming or transfer provisions
of this or any other appropriations Act.
SEC. 739. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to im-
plement, administer, enforce, or apply the
rule entitled ‘‘Competitive Area’’ published
by the Office of Personnel Management in
the Federal Register on April 15, 2008 (73 Fed.
Reg. 20180 et seq.).
SEC. 740. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be used to begin or announce
a study or public-private competition re-
garding the conversion to contractor per-
formance of any function performed by Fed-
eral employees pursuant to Office of Manage-
ment and Budget Circular A–76 or any other
administrative regulation, directive, or pol-
icy.
SEC. 741. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be available for a contract,
grant, or cooperative agreement with an en-
tity that requires employees or contractors
of such entity seeking to report fraud, waste,
or abuse to sign internal confidentiality
agreements or statements prohibiting or
otherwise restricting such employees or con-
tractors from lawfully reporting such waste,
fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative
or law enforcement representative of a Fed-
eral department or agency authorized to re-
ceive such information.
(b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall
not contravene requirements applicable to
Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or any other
form issued by a Federal department or
agency governing the nondisclosure of classi-
fied information.
SEC. 742. (a) No funds appropriated in this
or any other Act may be used to implement
or enforce the agreements in Standard
Forms 312 and 4414 of the Government or any
other nondisclosure policy, form, or agree-
ment if such policy, form, or agreement does
not contain the following provisions: ‘‘These
provisions are consistent with and do not su-
persede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the
employee obligations, rights, or liabilities
created by existing statute or Executive
order relating to (1) classified information,
(2) communications to Congress, (3) the re-
porting to an Inspector General of a viola-
tion of any law, rule, or regulation, or mis-
management, a gross waste of funds, an
abuse of authority, or a substantial and spe-
cific danger to public health or safety, or (4)
any other whistleblower protection. The
definitions, requirements, obligations,
rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5128 June 25, 2019
controlling Executive orders and statutory
provisions are incorporated into this agree-
ment and are controlling.’’: Provided, That
notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, a nondisclosure policy form or
agreement that is to be executed by a person
connected with the conduct of an intel-
ligence or intelligence-related activity,
other than an employee or officer of the
United States Government, may contain pro-
visions appropriate to the particular activity
for which such document is to be used. Such
form or agreement shall, at a minimum, re-
quire that the person will not disclose any
classified information received in the course
of such activity unless specifically author-
ized to do so by the United States Govern-
ment. Such nondisclosure forms shall also
make it clear that they do not bar disclo-
sures to Congress, or to an authorized offi-
cial of an executive agency or the Depart-
ment of Justice, that are essential to report-
ing a substantial violation of law.
(b) A nondisclosure agreement may con-
tinue to be implemented and enforced not-
withstanding subsection (a) if it complies
with the requirements for such agreement
that were in effect when the agreement was
entered into.
(c) No funds appropriated in this or any
other Act may be used to implement or en-
force any agreement entered into during fis-
cal year 2014 which does not contain substan-
tially similar language to that required in
subsection (a).
SEC. 743. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
enter into a contract, memorandum of un-
derstanding, or cooperative agreement with,
make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan
guarantee to, any corporation that has any
unpaid Federal tax liability that has been as-
sessed, for which all judicial and administra-
tive remedies have been exhausted or have
lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely
manner pursuant to an agreement with the
authority responsible for collecting the tax
liability, where the awarding agency is
aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless a
Federal agency has considered suspension or
debarment of the corporation and has made
a determination that this further action is
not necessary to protect the interests of the
Government.
SEC. 744. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
enter into a contract, memorandum of un-
derstanding, or cooperative agreement with,
make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan
guarantee to, any corporation that was con-
victed of a felony criminal violation under
any Federal law within the preceding 24
months, where the awarding agency is aware
of the conviction, unless a Federal agency
has considered suspension or debarment of
the corporation and has made a determina-
tion that this further action is not necessary
to protect the interests of the Government.
SEC. 745. (a) During fiscal year 2020, on the
date on which a request is made for a trans-
fer of funds in accordance with section 1017
of Public Law 111–203, the Bureau of Con-
sumer Financial Protection shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives, and the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate of such request.
(b) Any notification required by this sec-
tion shall be made available on the Bureau’s
public Web site.
SEC. 746. If, for fiscal year 2020, new budget
authority provided in appropriations Acts
exceeds the discretionary spending limit for
any category set forth in section 251(c) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 due to estimating dif-
ferences with the Congressional Budget Of-
fice, an adjustment to the discretionary
spending limit in such category for fiscal
year 2020 shall be made by the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget in the
amount of the excess but the total of all
such adjustments shall not exceed 0.2 per-
cent of the sum of the adjusted discretionary
spending limits for all categories for that fis-
cal year.
SEC. 747. (a) The adjustment in rates of
basic pay for employees under the statutory
pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year
2020 under section 5303 of title 5, United
States Code, shall be an increase of 2.6 per-
cent, and the overall average percentage of
the adjustments taking effect in such fiscal
year under sections 5304 and 5304a of such
title 5 shall be an increase of 0.5 percent
(with comparability payments to be deter-
mined and allocated among pay localities by
the President). All adjustments under this
subsection shall be effective as of the first
day of the first applicable pay period begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2020.
(b) Notwithstanding section 737, the ad-
justment in rates of basic pay for the statu-
tory pay systems that take place in fiscal
year 2020 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title
5, United States Code, shall be no less than
the percentages in subsection (a) as employ-
ees in the same location whose rates of basic
pay are adjusted pursuant to the statutory
pay systems under section 5303, 5304, and
5304a of title 5, United States Code. Pre-
vailing rate employees at locations where
there are no employees whose pay is in-
creased pursuant to sections 5303, 5304, and
5304a of such title 5 and prevailing rate em-
ployees described in section 5343(a)(5) of such
title 5 shall be considered to be located in
the pay locality designated as ‘‘Rest of U.S.’’
pursuant to section 5304 of such title 5 for
purposes of this subsection.
(c) Funds used to carry out this section
shall be paid from appropriations, which are
made to each applicable department or agen-
cy for salaries and expenses for fiscal year
2020.
SEC. 748. (a) Notwithstanding the official
rate adjusted under section 104 of title 3,
United States Code, the rate payable to the
Vice President during calendar year 2020
shall be 3.1 percent above the rate payable to
the Vice President on December 31, 2019, by
operation of section 749 of division D of Pub-
lic Law 116–6.
(b) Notwithstanding the official rate ad-
justed under section 5318 of title 5, United
States Code, or any other provision of law,
the payable rate for an employee serving in
an Executive Schedule position, or in a posi-
tion for which the rate of pay is fixed by
statute at an Executive Schedule rate, shall
be increased by 3.1 percent (relative to the
preexisting rate payable) at the time the of-
ficial rate is adjusted in January 2020. Such
an employee may receive no other pay in-
crease during calendar year 2020, except as
provided in subsection (i).
(c) Notwithstanding section 401 of the For-
eign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96–465)
or any other provision of law, a chief of mis-
sion or ambassador at large is subject to sub-
section (b) in the same manner as other em-
ployees who are paid at an Executive Sched-
ule rate.
(d)(1) This subsection applies to—
(A) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Ex-
ecutive Service paid a rate of basic pay at or
above the official rate for level IV of the Ex-
ecutive Schedule; or
(B) a limited term appointee or limited
emergency appointee in the Senior Execu-
tive Service serving under a political ap-
pointment and paid a rate of basic pay at or
above the official rate for level IV of the Ex-
ecutive Schedule.
(2) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383
of title 5, United States Code, an employee
described in paragraph (1) who is serving at
the time official rates of the Executive
Schedule are adjusted may receive a single
increase in the employee’s pay rate of no
more than 3.1 percent during calendar year
2020, subject to the normally applicable pay
rules and pay limitations in effect on Decem-
ber 31, 2019, by operation of section 749 of di-
vision D of Public Law 116–6 after those pay
limitations are increased by 3.1 percent
(after applicable rounding). Such an em-
ployee may receive no other pay increase
during calendar year 2020, except as provided
in subsection (i).
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, any employee paid a rate of basic pay
(including any locality based payments
under section 5304 of title 5, United States
Code, or similar authority) at or above the
official rate for level IV of the Executive
Schedule who serves under a political ap-
pointment, and who is serving at the time of-
ficial rates of the Executive Schedule are ad-
justed, may receive a single increase in the
employee’s pay rate of no more than 3.1 per-
cent during calendar year 2020, subject to the
normally applicable pay rules and pay limi-
tations in effect on December 31, 2019, by op-
eration of section 749 of division D of Public
Law 116–6 after those pay limitations are in-
creased by 3.1 percent (after applicable
rounding). Such an employee may receive no
other pay increase during calendar year 2020,
except as provided in subsection (i). This
subsection does not apply to employees in
the General Schedule pay system or the For-
eign Service pay system, to employees ap-
pointed under section 3161 of title 5, United
States Code, or to employees in another pay
system whose position would be classified at
GS–15 or below if chapter 51 of title 5, United
States Code, applied to them.
(f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e)
shall prevent employees who do not serve
under a political appointment from receiving
pay increases as otherwise provided under
applicable law.
(g) This section does not apply to an indi-
vidual who makes an election to retain Sen-
ior Executive Service basic pay under sec-
tion 3392(c) of title 5, United States Code, for
such time as that election is in effect.
(h) This section does not apply to an indi-
vidual who makes an election to retain Sen-
ior Foreign Service pay entitlements under
section 302(b) of the Foreign Service Act of
1980 (Public Law 96–465) for such time as that
election is in effect.
(i) Notwithstanding subsections (b)
through (e), an employee in a covered posi-
tion may receive a pay rate increase upon an
authorized movement to a different covered
position only if that new position has higher-
level duties and a pre-established level or
range of pay higher than the level or range
for the position held immediately before the
movement. Any such increase must be based
on the rates of pay and applicable pay limi-
tations in effect on December 31, 2019, by op-
eration of section 749 of division D of Public
Law 116–6 after those rates and pay limita-
tions are increased by 3.1 percent (after ap-
plicable rounding).
(j) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, for an individual who is newly appointed
to a covered position during the period of
time subject to this section, the initial pay
rate shall be based on the rates of pay and
applicable pay limitations in effect on De-
cember 31, 2019, by operation of section 749 of
division D of Public Law 116-6 after those
rates and pay limitations are increased by
3.1 percent (after applicable rounding).
(k) If an employee affected by this section
is subject to a biweekly pay period that be-
gins in calendar year 2020 but ends in cal-
endar year 2021, the bar on the employee’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5129
June 25, 2019
receipt of pay rate increases shall apply
through the end of that pay period.
(l) For the purpose of this section, the
term ‘‘covered position’’ means a position
occupied by an employee whose pay is re-
stricted under this section.
(m) This section takes effect on the first
day of the first applicable pay period begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2020.
SEC. 749. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be used to
administer, implement, or enforce any col-
lective bargaining agreement, or any article
or any term of any collective bargaining
agreement under chapter 71 of title 5, United
States Code, with an effective date after
April 30, 2019, that—
(1) was not mutually and voluntarily
agreed to by all parties to the agreement; or
(2) was not ordered following the comple-
tion of binding arbitration pursuant to sec-
tion 7119(b)(2) of title 5, United States Code.
(b) Any collective bargaining agreement
that was in effect before April 30, 2019, or
that expired before April 30, 2019, without a
new agreement having been executed, shall
remain in full force and effect until a new
collective bargaining agreement reached
through mutual and voluntary agreement, or
ordered following the completion of binding
arbitration pursuant to such section
7119(b)(2), becomes effective.
SEC. 750. (a) During fiscal year 2020, with
respect to budget authority proposed to be
rescinded or that is set to be reserved or pro-
posed to be deferred in a special message
transmitted under section 1012 or 1013 of the
Congressional Budget and Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, such budget authority
shall be made available for obligation in suf-
ficient time to be prudently obligated as re-
quired under section 1012(b) or 1013 of such
Act, and may not be deferred or otherwise
withheld from obligation during the 60-day
period before the expiration of the period of
availability of such budget authority, includ-
ing, if applicable, the 60-day period before
the expiration of an initial period of avail-
ability for which such budget authority was
provided.
(b) As used in this section, the term ‘‘budg-
et authority’’, includes budget authority
made available by this or any other Act, by
prior appropriations Acts, or by any law
other than an appropriations Act.
(c)(1) The Comptroller General shall review
and make a report on compliance with this
section and provide any relevant information
related to such report to the Committees on
Appropriations and on the Budget of both
Houses of Congress at the same time as any
review required by sections 1014 or 1015 of the
Congressional Budget and Impoundment
Control Act of 1974 is transmitted to the
Congress.
(2) The President shall provide information
and documentation to the Comptroller Gen-
eral, as is determined by the Comptroller
General to be necessary to determine such
compliance.
(d)(1) If any officer or employee of an Exec-
utive agency or of the District of Columbia
government violates this section, the head of
the agency or the Mayor of the District of
Columbia, as the case may be, shall report
such violation immediately as required
under section 1351 of title 31, United States
Code, as if violation of this section was a vio-
lation of section 1341(a) or 1342 of such title.
(2) Any officer or employee of the United
States Government or of the District of Co-
lumbia government violating this section
shall be subject to appropriate administra-
tive discipline under section 1349(a) of such
title as if violation of this section was a vio-
lation of section 1341(a) or 1342 of such title.
SEC. 751. Except as expressly provided oth-
erwise, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in any title other than title IV or VIII
shall not apply to such title IV or VIII.
TITLE VIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA
SEC. 801. None of the Federal funds pro-
vided under this Act to the agencies funded
by this Act, both Federal and District gov-
ernment agencies, that remain available for
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2020,
or provided from any accounts in the Treas-
ury of the United States derived by the col-
lection of fees available to the agencies fund-
ed by this Act, shall be available for obliga-
tion or expenditures for an agency through a
reprogramming of funds which—
(1) creates new programs;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or re-
sponsibility center;
(3) establishes or changes allocations spe-
cifically denied, limited or increased under
this Act;
(4) increases funds or personnel by any
means for any program, project, or responsi-
bility center for which funds have been de-
nied or restricted;
(5) re-establishes any program or project
previously deferred through reprogramming;
(6) augments any existing program,
project, or responsibility center through a
reprogramming of funds in excess of
$3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
(7) increases by 20 percent or more per-
sonnel assigned to a specific program,
project or responsibility center,
unless prior approval is received from the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 802. None of the Federal funds avail-
able for obligation or expenditure by the Dis-
trict of Columbia government under any au-
thority shall be expended for any abortion
except where the life of the mother would be
endangered if the fetus were carried to term
or where the pregnancy is the result of an
act of rape or incest.
SEC. 803. None of the Federal funds appro-
priated in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year,
nor may any be transferred to other appro-
priations, unless expressly so provided here-
in.
SEC. 804. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law or under this Act, not to ex-
ceed 50 percent of unobligated balances re-
maining available at the end of fiscal year
2020 from appropriations of Federal funds
made available for salaries and expenses for
fiscal year 2020 in this Act, shall remain
available through September 30, 2021, for
each such account for the purposes author-
ized: Provided, That a request shall be sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate for approval prior to the expenditure of
such funds: Provided further, That these re-
quests shall be made in compliance with re-
programming guidelines outlined in section
801 of this Act.
SEC. 805. (a)(1) During fiscal year 2021, dur-
ing a period in which neither a District of
Columbia continuing resolution or a regular
District of Columbia appropriation bill is in
effect, local funds are appropriated in the
amount provided for any project or activity
for which local funds are provided in the Act
referred to in paragraph (2) (subject to any
modifications enacted by the District of Co-
lumbia as of the beginning of the period dur-
ing which this subsection is in effect) at the
rate set forth by such Act.
(2) The Act referred to in this paragraph is
the Act of the Council of the District of Co-
lumbia pursuant to which a proposed budget
is approved for fiscal year 2021 which (subject
to the requirements of the District of Colum-
bia Home Rule Act) will constitute the local
portion of the annual budget for the District
of Columbia government for fiscal year 2021
for purposes of section 446 of the District of
Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.46, D.C.
Official Code).
(b) Appropriations made by subsection (a)
shall cease to be available—
(1) during any period in which a District of
Columbia continuing resolution for fiscal
year 2021 is in effect; or
(2) upon the enactment into law of the reg-
ular District of Columbia appropriation bill
for fiscal year 2021.
(c) An appropriation made by subsection
(a) is provided under the authority and con-
ditions as provided under this Act and shall
be available to the extent and in the manner
that would be provided by this Act.
(d) An appropriation made by subsection
(a) shall cover all obligations or expendi-
tures incurred for such project or activity
during the portion of fiscal year 2021 for
which this section applies to such project or
activity.
(e) This section shall not apply to a project
or activity during any period of fiscal year
2021 if any other provision of law (other than
an authorization of appropriations)—
(1) makes an appropriation, makes funds
available, or grants authority for such
project or activity to continue for such pe-
riod; or
(2) specifically provides that no appropria-
tion shall be made, no funds shall be made
available, or no authority shall be granted
for such project or activity to continue for
such period.
(f) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to affect obligations of the govern-
ment of the District of Columbia mandated
by other law.
SEC. 806. Section 3(c)(2)(G) of the District
of Columbia College Access Act of 1999 (sec.
38–2702(c)(2)(G), D.C. Official Code), as
amended by section 817 of the Financial
Services and General Government Appropria-
tions Act, 2019 (division D of Public Law 116–
6), is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$750,000.’’ and inserting the
following: ‘‘; (iii) for individuals who begin
an undergraduate course of study in or after
school year 2019-2020 but before school year
2020-2021, is from a family with a taxable an-
nual income of less than $500,000; and (iv) for
individuals who begin an undergraduate
course of study in or after school year 2020-
2021, is from a family with a taxable income
of less than $750,000.’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘Beginning with school year
2017-2018, the Mayor shall adjust the amounts
in clauses (i) and (ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘The
Mayor shall adjust the amounts in this sub-
paragraph’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘the Department of Labor’’
the first place it appears and all that follows
and inserting the following: ‘‘the Depart-
ment of Labor, beginning with school year
2017-2018 in the case of the amounts in
clauses (i) and (ii), beginning with school
year 2020-2021 in the case of the amount in
clause (iii), and beginning with school year
2021-2022 in the case of the amount in clause
(iv).’’.
SEC. 807. Nothing in this Act may be con-
strued to prevent the Council or Mayor of
the District of Columbia from addressing the
issue of the provision of contraceptive cov-
erage by health insurance plans, but it is the
intent of Congress that any legislation en-
acted on such issue should include a ‘‘con-
science clause’’ which provides exceptions
for religious beliefs and moral convictions.
SEC. 808. Except as expressly provided oth-
erwise, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in this title or in title IV shall be
treated as referring only to the provisions of
this title or of title IV.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5130 June 25, 2019
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Financial
Services and General Government Appropria-
tions Act, 2020’’.
The CHAIR. No amendment to the
bill shall be in order except those
printed in part B of House Report 116–
126, amendments en bloc described in
section 5 of House Resolution 460, and
pro forma amendments described in
section 6 of that resolution.
Each amendment printed in part B of
the report shall be considered only in
the order printed in the report, may be
offered only by a Member designated in
the report, shall be considered as read,
shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and
controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, may be withdrawn by the pro-
ponent at any time before action there-
on, shall not be subject to amendment
except as provided by section 6 of
House Resolution 460, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the
question.
It shall be in order at any time for
the chair of the Committee on Appro-
priations or her designee to offer
amendments en bloc consisting of
amendments printed in part B of the
report not earlier disposed of. Amend-
ments en bloc shall be considered as
read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Appropriations or
their designees, shall not be subject to
amendment, except as provided by sec-
tion 6 of House Resolution 460, and
shall not be subject to a demand for di-
vision of the question.
During consideration of the bill for
amendment, the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on
Appropriations or their respective des-
ignees may offer up to five pro forma
amendments each at any point for the
purpose of debate.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. POCAN
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 1 printed in part
B of House Report 116–126.
Mr. POCAN. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill (before the short
title), insert the following:
TITLE IX—ADDITIONAL PROVISION
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to finalize, im-
plement, administer, or enforce the proposed
rule entitled ‘‘Universal Service Contribu-
tion Methodology’’ published by the Federal
Communications Commission in the Federal
Register on June 13, 2019 (27570 Fed. Reg. 84).
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 460, the gentleman from Wis-
consin (Mr. POCAN) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Wisconsin.
Mr. POCAN. Mr. Chair, I rise to offer
an amendment that would stop the
Federal Communications Commission
from implementing a proposed agency
rule that would kneecap our Nation’s
efforts to achieve universal phone and
broadband service.
I would like to thank Representa-
tives CLYBURN, BUTTERFIELD, and
BUSTOS for their work on this impor-
tant amendment.
According to the FCC data, 21.3 mil-
lion people lack broadband access.
Other estimates are much higher and
show as many as 162.8 million people
may not have broadband speed inter-
net. That is why Congress required the
FCC to work towards universal phone
and broadband service.
To that end, the FCC established the
Universal Service Fund and its four
component programs: the Connect
America Fund; the low-income support
program, also known as Lifeline; the
Rural Healthcare Support program;
and the Schools and Libraries program.
The proposed FCC rule, which this
amendment seeks to block, would
mean cutting available funding for
broadband build-out, broadband in
schools and hospitals, and other crit-
ical programs. We cannot allow that to
happen.
The rule also proposes to combine
the caps of the Schools and Libraries
program and the Rural Healthcare Sup-
port program. Combining these pro-
grams would cap, effectively, schools
and rural hospitals, pitting them
against each other for Universal Serv-
ice Fund money, while doing nothing
to advance the goal of universal serv-
ice.
We cannot allow the FCC to move
forward with this rulemaking. We must
ensure that low-income and rural
Americans have access to broadband at
home, that rural hospitals have reli-
able broadband, and that students can
use broadband at school.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
vote for this amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I claim time in opposition to the
amendment here.
The CHAIR. The gentleman is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I appreciate Mr. POCAN and his
concerns for rural America.
I represent a very rural district as
well, and broadband and others are
very challenging, even in our region.
But one has to ask: If we have had this
Universal Service Fund for so many
years with such an exorbitant amount
of money being collected from our con-
stituents, then why do we still have
this problem?
And that is why I would suggest we
oppose this amendment and allow the
FCC to study what is going on here and
are these funds being used appro-
priately or not. In fact, it is my under-
standing that the FCC has identified
that there are no budgeting con-
straints; there is no top-line budget
whatsoever. And when they are doing
considerations and studies or analyzing
the use of funds, there are really no
measurements, no benchmarks.
I think this is a really good oppor-
tunity for us to allow them to at least
move forward into this process, and
just thinking of the Chairman of the
Commission, Ajit Pai is from Kansas
himself, and I think he understands the
needs and the concerns of rural Amer-
ica as well.
But, ultimately, it is not fair to the
American consumers, our constituents,
who are the ratepayers, who are paying
into this fund on every bill that they
receive and yet are not being delivered
the service that I think we all expect
in this day and age of new technology.
Mr. Chair, with that, I am in opposi-
tion to the amendment and ask that we
vote this amendment down and allow
the Commission to move forward to
study this and to provide more and bet-
ter access to rural broadband across
America.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. POCAN. Mr. Chair, I appreciate
the gentleman’s comments, and I actu-
ally live in a rural town of about 830
people, and last year we got internet. I
was paying, up to that point—I got a
half-price sale—$300 a month for 80
measured gigs of internet. And often in
winter, I would call my husband at the
end of a month and say: Quit watching
Netflix. We can’t afford $15 a gig in
order to watch them.
So my neighbors across the street
couldn’t do their homework because
they didn’t have broadband. Health fa-
cilities in our area have problems.
I don’t know if studying this is going
to solve it. I think having funds avail-
able seems to be the issue, so I think
this is important.
Mr. Chair, I yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. QUIGLEY), chairman of the
Appropriations Subcommittee on Fi-
nancial Services and General Govern-
ment.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I sup-
port this amendment.
USF is an important and effective
funding mechanism to ensure that all
Americans have access to the
broadband services necessary to fully
participate in modern life. Not only
does the USF subsidize broadband
build-out in areas that would otherwise
be too expensive to serve, but it in-
cludes Lifeline, a support program that
ensures that communication services
are not just accessible, but affordable.
This FCC proposal was nothing but
an unpopular and ill-advised effort to
undermine the USF, even as the coun-
try continues to face deep and lasting
disparities and access to modern com-
munication service.
Mr. Chair, for those reasons, I sup-
port the amendment.
Mr. POCAN. Mr. Chair, I am one of
the founders of the Rural Broadband
Caucus. We have three Democrats,
three Republicans—a lot of members.
This is not an issue people want us to
have reports or studies on. They want
broadband because, in my district, you
can’t track your cows if you don’t have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:37 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.020 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5131
June 25, 2019
broadband these days and you cer-
tainly can’t do your homework.
Healthcare and schools need this, not
to have to be competing for the funds.
Mr. Chair, I urge support of this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Wisconsin (Mr. POCAN).
The amendment was agreed to.
The CHAIR. The Chair understands
that amendment No. 2 will not be of-
fered.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. KING OF
IOWA
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 3 printed in part
B of House Report 116–126.
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I
offer amendment No. 3, according to
the rule.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Strike section 126.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 460, the gentleman from Iowa
(Mr. KING) and a Member opposed each
will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Iowa.
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I
rise to offer my King amendment No. 3,
and what it does is it strikes section
126 in the underlying bill.
Section 126 is notwithstanding lan-
guage that prohibits the executive
branch from using any of the funds in
the Department of the Treasury’s for-
feiture fund, the Civil Assets For-
feiture Fund, to be used for anything,
to build a wall or a road that might
support a wall on our southern border.
The language is very expansive in the
bill. It says none of the funds ‘‘may be
obligated, expended, or used to plan,
design, construct, or carry out a
project to construct a wall, barrier,
fence, or road along the southern bor-
der of the United States, or a road to
provide access to a wall, barrier, or
fence constructed along the southern
border of the United States.’’
Mr. Chairman, my amendment
strikes that language, and it does so
with the idea in mind that we have a
President who was elected with a man-
date to secure our border. This has
been an ongoing battle for the last 21⁄2
years, and still the resources are short.
I think we should have done a better
job in the previous Congress to get that
money into this project, but the Presi-
dent is going where he can to find the
resources to keep his campaign prom-
ises. So I certainly want to support
that by striking that language and al-
lowing the President to then have ac-
cess to what amounts to $601 million
that would be generated, be freed up by
my amendment.
And it recognizes this, that the U.S.
Treasury has about $13.6 billion that is
allocated to it under this underlying
bill; and this small piece of money here
is not a lot of money, but it does send
a message that it is going to get harder
and harder for the President to build a
wall if we don’t strike this language.
And I want to support the President’s
mission to do that.
It is ironic, I think, that we are
spending today—and I am the only one
in Congress that I know of who tracks
this spending, but we are spending at
least $6.7 million a mile for every mile
of the 2,000 miles of our southern bor-
der to secure that border.
Just doing the math in my head,
quickly, that turns out to be about
$13.4 billion. Almost the exact same
amount that is freed up to the Treas-
ury, we are spending to secure the bor-
der for something probably less than 50
percent efficiency. When you build a
wall, it is 99-point-something percent
efficiency.
We need to let the President be the
President. He has declared a national
emergency, and we need to strike this
language from the bill so the President
has the latitude to do that which the
people have elected him to do.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment offered by Mr. KING.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from Illi-
nois is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chair, this provi-
sion ensures that money from the
Treasury Forfeiture Fund can continue
to flow to other departments and agen-
cies that rely upon this funding to aug-
ment critical operations and support
emerging operational needs, such as
computer, forensic equipment, title III
wiretap intercepts, and anti-money
laundering investigation.
It also ensures that the bipartisan,
bicameral funding levels enacted by
Congress and signed into law by the
President are not clouded by executive
action.
Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Con-
stitution states: ‘‘No money shall be
drawn from the Treasury, but in con-
sequence of appropriations made by
law.’’ Any construction of border infra-
structure should be based on bipartisan
agreement between both Chambers of
Congress that is enacted in law, not by
an impulsive directive from 1600 Penn-
sylvania Avenue that disregards the
will of Congress and undermines the
ability of the Department of the Treas-
ury and the Department of Homeland
Security to address known threats
against our financial system and the
Nation.
Mr. Chair, for these reasons, I oppose
this amendment and urge my col-
leagues to do the same.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I
yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
GRAVES).
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I rise in support of the gentle-
man’s amendment. I am glad he has
brought this forward to highlight a few
things.
Mrs. TORRES said earlier these funds
could be used to assist local law en-
forcement. In fact, they can’t. These
are excess funds. And the statute clear-
ly says ‘‘to be transferred to Federal
agencies for law enforcement pur-
poses.’’ That is what the administra-
tion was using them for.
A little bit of a history lesson. The
last 6 months, we went through a gov-
ernment shutdown because of this
issue.
We had a Homeland Security Con-
ference Committee report that was
supposed to resolve this issue, so defi-
cient that the President declared it a
national emergency, relating to this.
Now we are having to have a supple-
mental budget discussion to deal with
this very same issue while restricting
the administration’s access to these
funds to address this very issue.
Mr. Chair, because of those reasons, I
support the gentleman’s amendment
and ask for adoption.
b 1600
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chair, just
some concluding thoughts on this.
This underlying bill is an increase of
$793.9 million more than last year, and
it is $484.4 million more than requested
by the administration. There are plen-
ty of resources in this underlying bill
to take care of the obligations that
this Congress has to the people of this
country, but they also have an obliga-
tion to secure our border and restore
the respect for the rule of law.
The chaos that we have on the border
is not just something that is reflecting
back on us in the United States. I am
hearing many laments about the indi-
vidual tragedies, though we are count-
ing them on one hand, for the most
part. I asked the Secretary of Home-
land Security under oath just late last
year, Kirstjen Nielsen at the time,
whom I respect and appreciate, how
many died on the way to our southern
border.
She said: I don’t have the data for
that. I will get it to you.
I said: It will be too long for that. I
want your best estimate. How many
died on the way from Central America
to the southern border?
Her answer finally came: Congress-
man, it would be thousands and thou-
sands.
That is the history of what we are
trying to shut off here. They will keep
coming until we end up deciding that
we are not going to accept them any-
more. We must secure our border if we
are going to be a sovereign nation. This
is a piece of it.
I support the President. I urge adop-
tion of this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Iowa (Mr. KING).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:37 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.071 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5132 June 25, 2019
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Iowa will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MS. NORTON
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 4 printed in part
B of House Report 116–126.
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill (before the short
title), insert the following:
TITLE IX—ADDITIONAL PROVISION
SEC. 901. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to relocate the Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture or
the Economic Research Service outside of
the National Capital Region.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 460, the gentlewoman from the
District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
Ms. NORTON. This amendment pro-
hibits the General Services Adminis-
tration, the Federal Government’s real
estate arm, from using its funds to re-
locate the Department of Agriculture’s
National Institute of Food and Agri-
culture and the Economic Research
Service outside of the national capital
region. Earlier today, the House pro-
hibited USDA from using its funds to
relocate these agencies outside of the
national capital region.
On June 13, 2019, USDA announced it
will relocate 547 out of its 644 employ-
ees of these agencies from the national
capital region to the Kansas City re-
gion.
Many Members of Congress who are
opposing this relocation are doing so
not only to protect the employees of
these agencies from the agonizing deci-
sion of moving halfway across the
country or losing their jobs, but we are
also fighting to protect scientific re-
search and integrity, uphold Federal
law, and ensure compliance with our
real estate procurement process.
The USDA lacks the legal or budget
authority to carry out this relocation.
The USDA and GSA have violated the
real estate procurement process. Fur-
ther, this move is not in the best inter-
ests of the taxpayers.
Don’t just take my word for it. The
USDA Office of Inspector General initi-
ated a review of the relocation for the
same reasons in November 2018, and
that review is ongoing.
This relocation is about ideology and
politics, nothing more. The decision to
relocate was made before any cost-ben-
efit analysis was done of the con-
sequences.
The relocation is about the Trump
administration’s long-documented an-
tipathy to nonpartisan, career Federal
employees and the objective research
they produce and fund.
The employees of the National Insti-
tute of Food and Agriculture and the
Economic Research Service are being
punished for doing their jobs, the jobs
Congress mandated. But the country,
especially the agricultural community,
is also being punished.
As the Union of Concerned Scientists
noted when the location was selected:
‘‘The damage was already done before
Secretary Perdue made his decision. It
was clear from the start that the
Trump administration was systemati-
cally hollowing out USDA’s ability to
produce objective science. The White
House proposed budget cuts to elimi-
nate research that’s inconvenient to its
interests, and at the same time,
they’ve created this unnecessary relo-
cation crisis, which is driving off sci-
entists who conduct that very re-
search,’’ which is necessary.
‘‘This is a blatant attack on science
and will especially hurt farmers, ranch-
ers, and eaters at a particularly vulner-
able time.’’
Mr. Chair, we will fight this reloca-
tion using every tool at our disposal. I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
rise in opposition to the gentlewoman’s
amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentleman is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair,
in the words of a great orator here on
the floor of the House, Mr. QUIGLEY,
‘‘Just because we can micromanage
them doesn’t mean we should.’’
This is a great example of it here. He
was absolutely right, as it pertains to
this.
Last August, the USDA sought inter-
est from U.S. towns, cities, and regions
from all over the country to host two
highly respected USDA research agen-
cies. In October, they received interest
from 136 unique locations in 35 States
to host these two Federal agencies.
After a thorough analysis seeing the
diverse, qualified applicants and qual-
ity of life, USDA chose three locations
and then selected the St. Louis area.
Now, this wasn’t just on a whim. In
fact, it was Ernst & Young that did an
analysis that said this would be a sav-
ings of $300 million to the taxpayers
and the employees of the Federal Gov-
ernment.
The Secretary of Agriculture has the
authority to make this move, and he
did so on behalf of the public’s interest,
the American people.
There was a time when physically
housing Federal agencies here in Wash-
ington, D.C., was necessary. However, I
think we all know, in the use of new
technology, the advancements that we
have today, it has opened up the possi-
bilities for these two and many other
Federal agencies to operate efficiently
in almost anyplace in our country, ex-
cept for maybe Mr. POCAN’s district be-
cause of the lack of rural broadband.
Why should we oppose this move of
two agriculture research agencies to
the heartland? Think about it, to the
heartland where agencies can recruit
from a greater pool, a greater source of
agricultural economists, and operate
closer to the farmers, the ranchers, the
producers, and the rural economies.
Why would we want to stop the agen-
cy from doing that? Saving taxpayer
dollars and the dollars of our Federal
employees makes perfect sense to me,
and it is because of those reasons that
I will urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this amend-
ment, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chair, why should
I think this wouldn’t happen this year?
Every single year, there is a move to
move agencies out of the Nation’s Cap-
ital. Why in the world do you think
that the Framers created a Nation’s
Capital in the first place?
My good friend offers the notion that
he wants to be closer to the people
where agriculture takes place. Well,
why don’t we move the Agriculture
Subcommittee? Why don’t we move
virtually everything that happens here
that we deal with nationwide? Because
there is a Nation’s Capital.
This is a political move. The other
side has shown in the past—and not
once, I must say—that science is not
important, and that is putting it mild-
ly.
They object to the objective science
that this agency puts out. Perhaps
some of us do as well, but the Federal
Government needs an objective, sci-
entific provision, and that is what this
is about.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
will close with this: This is not a polit-
ical decision. This is a good-govern-
ment decision. If this were a political
decision, the Secretary of Agriculture,
Sonny Perdue, from the State of Geor-
gia, who was in the agriculture profes-
sion himself in the past, would have
moved it to the State of Georgia, I
would assume, if it was a political deci-
sion.
If everything had to reside in D.C., I
guess we wouldn’t need research facili-
ties of other agencies elsewhere. We
wouldn’t need the FBI located in other
spots. We wouldn’t have the majority
leader proposing to move the FBI out
of Washington, D.C., might I add, to
Maryland, of all places. Maybe that is
a little more political, but maybe not.
This is not a political decision. This
is about making a good-government de-
cision, closer to the farmers, to the re-
searchers, to the universities, and to
the ranchers. It might save $300 million
of taxpayer dollars.
Mr. Chair, because of those reasons, I
oppose this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I can tell
my colleagues with great confidence that
USDA’s proposal to move the Economic Re-
search Service (ERS) and the National Insti-
tute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) outside
the National Capital Region is a bad idea.
We held a hearing on the issue last March,
at which four former senior USDA officials with
70 years of combined experience at the two
agencies, from both parties, expressed their
deep opposition to this proposal.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:37 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.075 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5133
June 25, 2019
Numerous stakeholders have expressed
strong opposition, including the National Farm-
ers Union, the Association of American Veteri-
nary Colleges and nearly 1700 other organiza-
tions, university officials, and individuals from
47 states.
We have not received a single letter in sup-
port of this proposal.
USDA violated the Appropriations Commit-
tee’s statutorily-required 30-day waiting period
for such proposals when it took action to im-
plement the proposal six days after notifying
the Committee.
It failed utterly to comply with the require-
ments of the conferees in the 2019 omnibus
appropriations report to submit all cost bene-
fits for the move and a detailed analysis of
any research benefits of a relocation when it
submitted the 2020 budget.
USDA has also refused numerous requests
from members of the House and Senate that
it provide the original cost-benefit analysis de-
veloped before the proposal was announced.
It finally gave us a so-called ‘‘cost-benefit
analysis’’ after the final site was selected.
But an independent analysis of this sup-
posed analysis found that ‘‘USDA leadership
failed to follow federal guidelines for the ben-
efit cost analysis’’ and that ‘‘the move to Kan-
sas City will cost taxpayers between $83 and
$182 million dollars, rather than saving them
$300 million dollars.’’
Large numbers of ERS and NIFA employ-
ees have left as a result of this proposal.
I fear that ultimately, these agencies will be-
come mere shadows of their former selves,
with the loss of hundreds of years of exper-
tise.
These agencies’ mission is to achieve the
best science through research that advances
U.S. agriculture and our understanding of the
agricultural economy.
I believe that the Department’s proposal
puts that mission at great risk.
I urge a yes vote on the Norton amendment.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia
(Ms. NORTON).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
demand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia
will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. HUIZENGA
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 5 printed in part
B of House Report 116–126.
Mr. HUIZENGA. I rise to offer an
amendment.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill (before the short
title) insert the following:
TITLE IX—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 901. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to implement, ad-
minister, or enforce a rule issued pursuant to
section 13(p) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 460, the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. HUIZENGA) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Michigan.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chair, I rise to
offer an amendment that suspends im-
plementation of section 1502 of the
Dodd-Frank Act.
Despite the best intentions, section
1502 has proved unworkable and, in
some cases, has even been shown to in-
crease violence in Central Africa.
This misguided provision in the
Dodd-Frank Act requires that the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission
mandate that public companies dis-
close whether so-called conflict min-
erals that they use for their products
benefit armed groups in the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo and its
nine adjoining countries.
This amendment I am proposing
passed the House last year as an
amendment to the Financial Services
and General Government appropria-
tions bill, and a full repeal of section
1502 passed the House as part of the Fi-
nancial CHOICE Act.
‘‘Conflict minerals’’ refers to tin,
tungsten, tantalum, and gold, which
have been used in a variety of products
from cell phones, cosmetics, jewelry,
footwear, and apparel. Even auto sup-
pliers located in western Michigan and
around the country have used it.
The breadth of voices opposing 1502 is
remarkable, and I would like to start
with those who matter most.
For too long, the people of Central
Africa have been overlooked in this de-
bate, even though they are the ones
who suffer from Dodd-Frank’s unin-
tended consequences. Dodd-Frank’s im-
pact on African miners may seem un-
important to many rich country activ-
ists, but in Congo, it has been a ques-
tion of life or death.
In fact, according to a Washington
Post article entitled ‘‘How a Well-In-
tentioned U.S. Law Left Congolese
Miners Jobless,’’ section 1502 ‘‘set off a
chain of events that has propelled mil-
lions of miners and their families deep-
er into poverty,’’ with many miners
‘‘forced to find other ways to survive,
including by joining armed groups.’’
b 1615
This article goes on to share the
story of how a Congolese teenager who
could no longer feed himself after
Dodd-Frank ravaged the country’s
mining sector, forcing him to actually
join an armed group—an outcome dia-
metrically opposed to the goals of sec-
tion 1502.
Mr. Chair, no one can claim that
these effects were unforeseeable. In a
letter to the SEC commenting on sec-
tion 1502, leaders from three Congolese
mining cooperatives predicted that the
conflict minerals rule would lead to a
devastating boycott.
These miners wrote: ‘‘We cannot con-
tinue to suffer any longer. Do we now
have to choose between dying by a bul-
let or starving to death?’’
I ask my colleagues to remember the
Congolese aren’t alone in their suf-
fering. The SEC rule applies to nine
other African nations as if they were
all one single country. In fact, section
1502 treats over 230 million Africans
living in 10 distinct nations as one, un-
differentiated group.
Dodd-Frank’s supporters will say at
this point that some countries neigh-
boring Congo may help smuggle min-
erals on behalf of these armed groups,
which is why we need to paint with
such a broad brush. But I would ask my
colleagues to name one other example
where a country’s economy and each of
its neighbors is targeted due to a pre-
sumed smuggling risk.
Do we design Russia sanctions to
apply to each of its 14 adjoining coun-
tries, too?
Do Iranian sanctions implicate all of
its seven neighbors?
How about North Korea and its
neighbors South Korea and China?
Perhaps advocates for section 1502 be-
lieve that there is no smuggling from
Russia, Iran, or North Korea. But the
real issue seems to be this: Dodd-
Frank’s supporters have no problem
treating Africans differently from
other regions of the world. I find that
extremely troubling.
Now let’s consider implementation of
1502 itself.
A recent GAO report stated that sec-
tion 1502 has produced little meaning-
ful information on conflict minerals
sourcing. It found that more than half
of the companies could not even deter-
mine what country their minerals
came from. Most importantly, vir-
tually none of the companies could tell
whether their minerals benefited
armed groups or not, a conclusion that
echoed GAO’s findings from 2014 to 2017
as well.
It is no wonder that companies can’t
figure this out. Even the Department
of Commerce in both the Obama and
Trump administrations has reported
that it is unable to determine whether
smelters around the world use minerals
traceable to armed groups. In other
words, Dodd-Frank is asking U.S. com-
panies—some of which are small- and
medium-sized enterprises in larger cor-
porations’ supply chains—to produce
information that even the Federal Gov-
ernment can’t provide.
As if that weren’t enough, the courts
have also struck down parts of section
1502 for violating companies’ First
Amendment rights.
Mr. Chair, the facts I have laid out in
1502 are not partisan, and its suspen-
sion shouldn’t be either. So let me
close with words of Barack Obama’s
SEC Chair Mary Jo White who in 2013
said: ‘‘Seeking to improve safety in
mines for workers or to end to horrible
human rights atrocities in the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo are com-
pelling objectives, which, as a citizen, I
wholeheartedly share. But, as the chair
of the SEC, I must question, as a policy
matter, using the Federal securities
laws and the SEC’s powers of manda-
tory disclosure to accomplish these
goals.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:37 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.024 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5134 June 25, 2019
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in opposition to the amendment offered
by the gentleman from Michigan.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from Illi-
nois is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chairman, this
amendment states that no funds may
be used to force the SEC’s conflict min-
eral rules which were required by sec-
tion 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protec-
tion Act. Section 1502 was enacted to
help support peace in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and combat a
deadly conflict minerals trade that
threatens the security of men, women,
and children in eastern Congo.
This rule requires that SEC-regu-
lated firms that use tin, tantalum,
tungsten, or gold in their products to
publicly report whether they obtain
their supplies of these key minerals
from the Central African Republic re-
gion. If so, these companies must re-
port the due diligence they exercised to
ensure that these purchases did not
benefit armed groups in the Congo.
The conflict in this region has
spawned numerous militias, some po-
litically oriented and some primarily
criminal, but all of which have been
characterized by extreme human rights
abuses.
Since the rule was adopted, we have
seen a significant reduction in armed
group activity in many mining areas in
eastern Congo and unprecedented im-
provements in the transparency of cor-
porate mineral supply chains. This
amendment would reverse that
progress while allowing some of the
world’s deadliest armed groups to prof-
it from lucrative conflict minerals.
Let us not forget that conflict min-
erals are commonly used in the manu-
facturing of cellphones, jewelry, and
airplanes. The goal of the rule is to
prevent companies from buying these
minerals from armed militant groups
that kill and rape people in Congo and
neighboring countries.
Mr. Chair, I oppose this amendment,
I urge my colleagues to do the same,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. HUIZENGA).
The amendment was rejected.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MS. VELÁZQUEZ
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 6 printed in part
B of House Report 116–126.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 100, line 17, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $1,000,000)’’.
Page 101, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1,000,000)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 460, the gentlewoman from New
York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman,
there are nearly 30 million small busi-
nesses in the United States rep-
resenting more than 99 percent of all
businesses. They spur the American
economy by taking great risks to
launch new ventures, develop new prod-
ucts, and, ultimately spur job growth,
and the SBA is a vital part of their
support system.
The SBA administers a portfolio of
entrepreneurial development programs
which includes growth accelerators.
They help high-growth startups de-
velop their products, identify prom-
ising customer segments, and secure
resources like vital capital and em-
ployees. My amendment aims to re-
store funding to prior levels, so they
have the resources they need to help
aspiring entrepreneurs.
Growth accelerators have long been a
powerful tool for helping innovators
grow. Each year since they were
formed in 2005 they have gained in pop-
ularity. In fact, their numbers nearly
doubled each year between 2008 and
2014 with growth remaining steady
since then.
They serve as an all-inclusive cre-
ative hub that provides technical as-
sistance for growing businesses and a
central location for investors to find
vetted businesses. The success of these
companies is real. The average valu-
ation of firms graduating from an ac-
celerator is $90 million.
But beyond promoting business ex-
pansion, growth accelerators also bring
economic development and job oppor-
tunities to the communities in which
they are located. The SBA Office of Ad-
vocacy found that startups working
with their local accelerator hire an av-
erage of 8.5 more employees.
Small businesses are the backbone of
the American economy, and we should
provide our entrepreneurs with the re-
sources they need to succeed, and that
is what this amendment does. I am
seeking to bring growth accelerators
up to a reasonable funding level by pro-
viding a $1 million increase. Doing so
brings the funding in line with pre-
viously enacted levels and gives them
the ability to continue helping our Na-
tion’s innovative startups and spurring
job creation.
Clearly, Mr. Chairman, accelerators
are a vital part of our Nation’s entre-
preneurial ecosystem. Therefore, I urge
my colleagues to support this amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. HILL OF
ARKANSAS
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 7 printed in part
B of House Report 116–126.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair-
man, I have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 101, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by
$5,000,000)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 460, the gentleman from Arkan-
sas (Mr. HILL) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arkansas.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair-
man, this amendment is very straight-
forward. It ensures that $5 million
within the Small Business Administra-
tion’s entrepreneurial development
program is spent in support of the
Small Business Administration’s Re-
gional Innovation Clusters program.
Earlier this year the SBA awarded a
$500,000 contract through this Regional
Innovation Clusters program to an or-
ganization in my district called the
Conductor. The Conductor is a public-
private partnership between the Uni-
versity of Central Arkansas in Conway,
Arkansas, and Startup Junkie in Fay-
etteville, Arkansas.
The Conductor is one of seven clus-
ters nationwide to be awarded this
competitive contract, and this impor-
tant funding will enable the Conductor
to bolster its ability and expand its
footprint across underserved areas par-
ticularly in rural Arkansas. With only
a small amount of money, $5 million,
the SBA can continue to drive innova-
tion and job creation in Arkansas.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr.
WOMACK).
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Chairman, I want
to thank my friend, FRENCH HILL from
Little Rock, for leading on this very
important issue, and I rise in strong
support of his amendment.
I am a proud cosponsor of this impor-
tant amendment that restores funding
for the Regional Innovation Cluster
program within the Small Business Ad-
ministration. The Regional Innovation
Cluster program provides region- and
industry-specific technical assistance
to startup businesses. This program fo-
cuses on helping startups scale up to
meet the growing needs of their cus-
tomers.
While there are success stories from
across the country, one is near and
dear to my heart. The Ozarks Regional
Innovation Cluster is based in Fayette-
ville, Arkansas, in my district. Last
year alone, the Ozarks Regional Inno-
vation Cluster serviced 572 small busi-
ness owners. It created 517 net jobs,
raised $81.5 million in capital and re-
ceived eight new patents for their
work.
Nationwide, businesses participating
in the Regional Innovation Cluster pro-
gram have seen tremendous growth
both in jobs created and in revenue.
As we know, startups and small busi-
nesses account for about two-thirds of
all new jobs and the growth that comes
with these new jobs. Let’s support
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:37 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.080 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5135
June 25, 2019
them today by restoring funding for
this important program.
Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of the
amendment of my friend from Arkan-
sas.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair-
man, I am proud to work with my
friend from northwest Arkansas on this
important amendment. I appreciate my
colleague’s support.
In just the 3 years since it has
launched, the Conductor has served
nearly 9,000 people through its free pro-
gramming and its business consulting.
I thank UCA for its leadership on the
Conductor.
Mr. Chairman, I encourage all Mem-
bers to support this important amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Arkansas (Mr. HILL).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MS. LEE OF
CALIFORNIA
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 8 printed in part
B of House Report 116–126.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Chair, I
rise as the designee of the gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE),
and I have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 15, line 24, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1,000,000)’’
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 460, the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. LEE) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Chair, I
am grateful for the opportunity to
speak in support of the Jackson Lee
amendment to Rules Committee Print
116–20 which makes appropriations for
fiscal year 2020, H.R. 3351, the Finan-
cial Services and General Government
Appropriations Act, 2020.
I wish to commend Chairwoman
WATERS and Ranking Member
MCHENRY for their work in shepherding
this legislation to the floor.
Mr. Chair, the Jackson Lee amend-
ment is simple but provides an impor-
tant and necessary protection for
grieving parents. The Jackson Lee
amendment ensures that the IRS Tax
Advocate Service has adequate re-
sources to assist parents of a deceased
child whose Social Security number
was stolen by tax cheats and used on a
Federal tax return to receive an
Earned Income Tax Credit.
The Jackson Lee amendment is in-
tended to be a compassionate use of
IRS funds to help grieving parents
navigate the process of reclaiming
their child’s identity from tax cheats.
This amendment is necessary when we
consider the story of little Alexis Agin
who was just 4 years old when she died
of a brain tumor in 2011.
b 1630
Her parents grieved. Someone stole
Alexis’ identity to commit tax fraud.
Alexis’ parents did not discover the
crime until they filed their taxes.
The sad fact is, Alexis’ parents are
not alone. They were one of at least 14
other parents whose children died of
cancer and learned that their child’s
Social Security number had been sto-
len by tax thieves.
Nearly all of us understand the im-
portance of safeguarding our Social Se-
curity numbers, but, after someone
dies, Social Security numbers are pub-
lished on a national online registry
called the Master Death List. The Mas-
ter Death List registry exists to alert
businesses and financial institutions to
not renew credit cards or create new
credit in the deceased person’s name,
but it also alerts thieves of opportuni-
ties to steal identities and commit tax
fraud.
As reported by the San Francisco
Chronicle, identity thieves have stolen
the tax refunds of more than 490,000
dead persons since 2008. The thieves
typically claim that a dead person is
their dependent when they file their
tax returns.
In fiscal year 2012, the IRS initiated
approximately 900 identity theft-re-
lated criminal investigations, triple
the number of investigations initiated
in 2011. Direct investigative time ap-
plied to identity theft-related inves-
tigations increased by 129 percent over
the same period.
On July 30, 2013, in St. Louis, Mis-
souri, Tania Henderson was convicted
of theft of government funds and ag-
gravated identity theft, sentenced to
144 months in prison, and ordered to
pay $835,883 in restitution to the U.S.
Treasury. According to her plea agree-
ment and other court documents, Hen-
derson stole the identities of more than
400 individuals, many of whom were de-
ceased, and filed fraudulent tax returns
using their names and Social Security
account numbers.
The theft of identities of deceased
children for the purpose of committing
tax fraud is a sad fact that too many
parents have to face when they are at-
tempting to cope with the tragedy of
losing their child. The Jackson Lee
amendment will help ensure that the
IRS Tax Advocate Service has the re-
sources needed to assist these grieving
parents with the filing of the last re-
turn where their child’s name will be
listed as being a member of their
household.
I urge all Members to support the
Jackson Lee amendment, which would
be a compassionate, mind you, use of
IRS funds.
Mr. Chairman, I ask for an ‘‘aye’’
vote, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. LEE).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MR. COURTNEY
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 9 printed in part
B of House Report 116–126.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chair, I rise as
the designee of the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ZELDIN), and I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill (before the short
title), insert the following:
TITLE IX—ADDITIONAL PROVISION
SEC. 901. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used to enforce section 540
of Public Law 110–329 (122 Stat. 3688) or sec-
tion 538 of Public Law 112–74 (125 Stat. 976; 6
U.S.C. 190 note).
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 460, the gentleman from Con-
necticut (Mr. COURTNEY) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Connecticut.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chair, I rise in
support of this bipartisan amendment
to protect Plum Island, which is being
offered by Mr. ZELDIN of New York,
myself, Congresswoman ROSA
DELAURO, and TOM SUOZZI, who also
represents a portion of Long Island.
Plum Island is a unique ecological
treasure situated between eastern Long
Island Sound and the Connecticut
shoreline. It is the home of over 200
bird species and countless rare plant
species, including the northernmost
known extent of the blackjack oak spe-
cies.
Our amendment today is simple. It
prevents the General Services Adminis-
tration from using Federal dollars for
sale or marketing activities related to
Plum Island.
In 2008, over a decade ago, Congress
mandated the public sale of Plum Is-
land, with proceeds intended to par-
tially offset a new Bio and Agro-De-
fense Facility in the State of Kansas.
This law dictated that GSA must sell
the island to the highest bidder. Trans-
ferring it to another Federal entity or
nonprofit was not an option, which is
normally the way that property such
as this is disposed of in other cases.
The statutory requirement enacted
in 2008 was flawed and short-circuits
the GSA’s usual process of finding po-
tential other Federal uses for the land
or nonprofits to take custody of the
land before an auction.
My colleague from across Long Is-
land Sound, Congressman LEE ZELDIN,
and I have introduced several measures
to slow down or block the sale of Plum
Island, which has been strongly sup-
ported by environmental and conser-
vancy groups on both sides of Long Is-
land Sound.
In the past several Congresses, the
House has voted unanimously to help
our effort only to, unfortunately, have
it stall in the Senate.
We have worked with Congress-
woman DELAURO, also, to have lan-
guage included in the Homeland Secu-
rity appropriations bill that may come
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:37 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.084 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5136 June 25, 2019
up later this summer that would fur-
ther prevent the sale of Plum Island.
We have been working in a bipartisan
manner to save this ecological treas-
ure, Plum Island, for over a decade.
Mr. Chair, this amendment would
help protect this ecological treasure
from overdevelopment and destruction,
and I want to thank the ranking mem-
ber and Mr. QUIGLEY for their support
in allowing this matter to make it
through the Rules Committee.
Mr. Chair, I strongly urge all Mem-
bers to support this amendment, I urge
an ‘‘aye’’ vote, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Connecticut (Mr. COURTNEY).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MR. PASCRELL
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 10 printed in part
B of House Report 116–126.
Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 105, line 15, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by
$1,000,000)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 460, the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Chair, I rise on
behalf of more than 68 million Ameri-
cans who lack access to adequate bank-
ing services. They are often shut out of
banks because of fees tied to minimum
balances, overdrafts, direct deposit
penalties, and, of course, ATM charges.
Or, worse, many live in bank deserts
because, incredibly, even in 2019, their
community lacks a bank or credit
union altogether.
This leaves underbanked Americans
to turn to unregulated, predatory pay-
day lenders and check cashers that
level obscene annual percentage rates.
These parasitic institutions keep fami-
lies in poverty and further cement the
economic inequality which tears our
country apart.
It does not have to be this way. Our
United States Postal Service is in a
unique position to provide affordable,
consumer-driven financial services
these millions of Americans need. With
branches in every ZIP Code, from
Paterson, New Jersey, to Elko, Nevada,
to Barrow, Alaska, the post office’s un-
matched reach offers a world of oppor-
tunity.
In 2014, the USPS inspector general
determined that the Postal Service is
well positioned to expand its financial
services offerings, which currently in-
cludes money orders, check cashing,
and prepaid debit card services. The
IG’s report found there is a significant
demand for these services from popu-
lations underserved by private banks
that the Postal Service could fill per-
fectly.
It is difficult to overstate what this
small change would do, Mr. Chairman.
Postal banking would benefit Ameri-
cans from every walk of life. Ninety
percent of ZIP Codes lacking a bank or
credit union are in rural areas. Bank
branches are also sparse in low-income
urban areas. Approximately 46 percent
of Latino and 49 percent of African
American households are underbanked.
Think about that. Democrats and Re-
publicans alike could derive enormous
benefits for their constituents. Talk
about uniting America. It is a practical
thing.
In a second study the USPS inspector
general conducted in 2015, the IG con-
cluded that expanding the Postal Serv-
ice’s current financial services offer-
ings would not even cost much, is fully
permissible under current statutory
authority, and could generate $1.1 bil-
lion in additional revenue for the Post-
al Service, annually, after 5 years.
You know what has happened to the
Postal Service and how in debt the
Postal Service is because of a few fool-
ish rules that are on the books.
This is not a novel concept. Postal
services in 139 countries around the
world offer some form of financial serv-
ices, including every other developed
country in the world.
Students of history can recall that
the United States had a legendary
Postal Savings System up to 1967—
started in 1911—and managed over $3.4
billion in assets, or $35 billion in to-
day’s dollars, at the peak of its use. I
want America to back those successes.
Mr. Chairman, I include in the
RECORD an essay I wrote for the Wash-
ington Monthly on modernizing the
U.S. Postal Service to make the insti-
tution thrive once more and benefit
tens of millions of Americans in the
process. The piece was titled, ‘‘Con-
gress Is Sabotaging Your Post Office.’’
[Apr./May/June 2019]
CONGRESS IS SABOTAGING YOUR POST OFFICE
(By Bill Pascrell, Jr.)
The Larry Doby Post Office is located at
194 Ward Street in Paterson, New Jersey,
across the street from my congressional of-
fice. Dedicated on August 28, 1933, by the leg-
endary Postmaster General James Farley,
the structure was one of the many built by
Franklin D. Roosevelt’s administration in
the throes of the Great Depression. While it
may not have one of the stunning murals
created by Roosevelt’s Section of Painting
and Sculpture, I still marvel at the managed
grandeur of its deco buttressing, the green
glow of the elevated banker’s lamps off the
marble walls, and the banks of brass P.O.
boxes. My hometown has bounced like a cork
in seas of social tumult, but the Ward Street
post office has endured as I’ve always known
it.
There is a cynical trope that Congress
spends too much time naming post offices,
but I don’t view the matter as insignificant.
Post offices are open gates to American his-
tory and markers of an optimistic past. Even
as smartphones and electronic communica-
tion permeate every crevice of daily life, the
United States Postal Service (USPS) forms a
lifeblood circulatory system connecting
every community in the Union. For this rea-
son, my work to rename the Ward Street
building for Doby, an African American base-
ball legend and favorite son of Paterson, re-
mains a highlight of my career.
Unfortunately, when it comes to Congress
and the post office, the problem isn’t too
much affection. For decades, Congress’s atti-
tude toward the post has ranged from ne-
glect to hostility. As a result, the USPS is
struggling. In November 2018, it announced a
net decline of $3.9 billion, continuing a
twelve-year negative run.
The agency has been subjected to with-
ering criticism by a spate of congressional
hearings and Government Accountability Of-
fice analyses. A recent task force created by
President Trump labeled the Postal Service’s
financial path ‘‘unsustainable,’’ and rec-
ommended changes that would push the post
closer to complete privatization. Under
mounting political pressure, the post office
itself has endorsed draconian layoffs and pro-
posed ending Saturday delivery, among other
savage cuts.
What is causing all these troubles? Is the
Postal Service hopelessly outdated and dys-
functional? No. While it’s tempting to think
of it as a mastodon from the pre-internet
era, the post remains one of the most im-
pressive enterprises on earth.
The USPS handles 47 percent of the world’s
mail, delivering nearly 150 billion mail
pieces annually. It delivers more in sixteen
days than UPS and FedEx, combined, ship in
a year. The agency has roughly half a mil-
lion career employees spread out across al-
most 31,000 locations. Post offices are tucked
into every state, across far-flung Native
American reservations, and in remote pro-
tectorates. If it were a private business, the
post would rank around fortieth on the For-
tune 500. And you can send a letter from
coast to coast for two quarters and a nick-
el—less than the cost of a candy bar.
Not surprising, then, that Americans con-
sistently rank the post office among the
most popular arms of government. A Feb-
ruary 2018 poll by the Pew Research Center,
for example, found that 88 percent of Ameri-
cans have a positive view of it. That’s higher
than the approval ratings for the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, the Federal
Reserve, and the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation.
It’s true that technological change has af-
fected the Postal Service’s fortunes. As peo-
ple send fewer and fewer letters, the volume
of first-class mail continues to tumble; be-
tween 2016 and 2018, it dropped by more than
4.5 billion pieces. This depresses the post’s
revenue, forcing it to take on more debt,
which in turn puts it under greater financial
pressure. But as online shopping slowly re-
places in-person retail, the post is sending
and delivering more packages than ever be-
fore, which compensates somewhat for lost
revenue. Lower mail volume is not the main
issue.
In reality, most of the post’s wounds are
politically inflicted. In the early 1970s, Con-
gress passed legislation that shoehorned the
agency into a convoluted half-public, half-
corporate governing structure, to make it
operate more as a business. And in 2006, Con-
gress required that the Postal Service pre-
fund its health benefit obligations at least
fifty years into the future. This rule has ac-
counted for nearly 90 percent of the post’s
red ink since.
For the most part, these harmful ‘‘re-
forms’’ have originated on the political
right. To argue that the Postal Service needs
to be privatized, conservatives need to show
that it is dysfunctional, and there’s no bet-
ter way to do that than by weighing the
agency down with impossible financial obli-
gations. It continues a generation-long pat-
tern of institutional vandalism by Repub-
licans across government. But ultimately,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.089 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5137
June 25, 2019
both parties bear responsibility. I should
know: I was in Congress when we passed the
2006 bill. And, along with all my colleagues,
I made the mistake of voting for it.
But the good news is that just as Congress
put the Postal Service on its current dan-
gerous trajectory, so can Congress put it on
a sustainable path, bringing our cherished
institution back to full health. In fact, I be-
lieve we can go even further. With its mas-
sive infrastructure network, post offices
could revolutionize how the American people
perform a variety of essential tasks, from
voting to paying taxes to banking. Tapping
into this network has the potential to revi-
talize both the Postal Service and our de-
mocracy. Instead of discussing how to cut
the post office, we should be talking about
how to expand it.
Arguments about whether the post should
operate like a business date back to Amer-
ica’s founding. While debating the original
Post Office Act, a group including Alexander
Hamilton argued that the post should sup-
port itself and make money for the rest of
the government. Others, including George
Washington and James Madison, didn’t seem
to care whether it turned a profit. Jonathan
Trumbull, the speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives in 1792, observed that having
the post subsidize the circulation of periodi-
cals would be ‘‘among the surest means of
preventing the degeneracy of a free govern-
ment.’’ In the end, Washington and Madison
won the day. The government allowed print-
ers to ship their newspapers and magazines
at a very low cost: one cent to destinations
within 100 miles, and one and a half cents to
destinations more than 100 miles away. This
set off what one researcher called ‘‘the great-
est explosion of newspapers in history’’—and
with it an explosion in literacy.
By the mid-nineteenth-century mark, the
Washingtonian view of the post as a public
good was deeply entrenched. An early con-
gressional postal commission posited that
the post office existed not for generating rev-
enue but for ‘‘elevating our people in the
scale of civilization, and binding them to-
gether in patriotic affection.’’ Legislation
enacted between 1845 and 1851 codified inex-
pensive letter postage and further redefined
the post’s place in public life. The ratifica-
tion of these reforms signaled the full defeat
of the idea that the post must be inde-
pendent. It was entitled to government sup-
port, deficits be damned.
Over the ensuing hundred years, the post
would usher in a second American revolu-
tion. Delivery of home mail precipitated
road building and allowed Americans to fan
out and settle across the nation. Postal con-
tracts sustained the construction of trans-
continental railways that would have other-
wise been economically unsustainable. And
it was the post office, not the military, that
got the U.S. government to finally invest in
aviation and help birth commercial flying.
The post has also been an agent of upward
social mobility. For generations, African
Americans were locked out of good govern-
ment jobs. But as the federal bureaucracy
began to desegregate, black workers joined
the USPS en masse. Under the Harding and
Coolidge administrations, black people made
up between 15 and 30 percent of postal em-
ployees, making the agency one of America’s
foremost incubators of the black middle
class. The post also factored significantly
into Roosevelt’s efforts to fight the Great
Depression. Between 1932 and 1937, the gov-
ernment built more than 1,300 post offices.
Many were enhanced with the beautiful mu-
rals FDR believed would bring art to the na-
tion. The agency’s central role in America’s
development was perhaps best summarized in
the Postal Policy Act of 1958, when Congress
declared that the post was ‘‘clearly not a
business enterprise conducted for profit’’ but
a public service designed to promulgate ‘‘so-
cial, cultural, intellectual, and commercial
intercourse among the people of the United
States.’’
But, in the 1960s, that view began to
change. After years of underinvestment rel-
ative to the rise in demand for its services,
the post faced a huge mail backlog in Chi-
cago. Ten million pieces of undelivered mail
piled up in the city, and the Lyndon Johnson
administration established a commission to
look into the agency. It was headed by a
former AT&T chairman and stacked with
CEOs and business school deans. In 1970, the
post office was wracked by a debilitating
worker strike. The backlog and the strike
spurred a political overreaction.
Following the strike and the commission’s
1968 recommendations, Congress passed the
Postal Reorganization Act of 1970, which ex-
iled the postmaster general from the presi-
dent’s cabinet and downgraded the post of-
fice from a federal department to an inde-
pendent federal agency. Ostensibly designed
to modernize the post and free it from a his-
tory of patronage, the legislation proved pro-
foundly shortsighted. It required that the
post largely pay for its operations out of its
own revenues, and it split leadership of the
Postal Service between the postmaster gen-
eral and a board of governors, the latter of
which has been largely dominated by tech-
nocrats who see the post foremost as a busi-
ness. At the same time, however, the post
was still subject to congressional oversight.
It’s hard to imagine any corporation that
would agree to operate under this peculiar
hybrid structure. Even today most Ameri-
cans don’t realize that despite their reliance
on it, our post is not a part of the govern-
ment in the same way as the Department of
Agriculture or the Pentagon, and receives ef-
fectively no support from the federal budget.
Unfortunately, the 1970 bill was only the
first in a series of legislative blows against
the post. From 1808 until 1995, Congress had
a full congressional committee for the Post-
al Service. But as part of his war on govern-
ment, Speaker Newt Gingrich relegated its
duties to the present-day Oversight and Re-
form Committee, where they were assigned
to a postal service subcommittee. In 2001, the
Republican House majority disbanded the
subcommittee altogether.
But the most destructive change of all was
the Postal Accountability and Enhancement
Act (PAEA). The bill has an unfortunate his-
tory. It was hurried to the floor during a
lame-duck Congress weeks after Republicans
were routed from their twelve-year congres-
sional majority in the 2006 midterms. Com-
mittee leaders told us that the legislation
was critical to ‘‘saving’’ the post, and we
were rushed into voting for the bill without
fully considering its motivations or long-
term impacts. The legislation was passed by
voice vote—without objection. It was a blun-
der, one of the worst pieces of legislation
Congress has passed in a generation.
While the PAEA included some positive
measures, including giving the post in-
creased autonomy over its rates, the law
generally tightened a noose around the
USPS. It further narrowed the post’s charter
and prohibited the Postal Service from en-
gaging in new activities outside of mail de-
livery. The law’s most destructive section,
innocuously labeled ‘‘Postal Service Retire-
ment and Health Benefits Funding,’’ imposed
an unusual requirement on how the post cov-
ers its employee health pensions. Prior to
2006, the post funded its pensions like all
agencies: pay as you go. Now, however, the
agency had to pre-fund the health care bene-
fits of employees at least fifty years in ad-
vance. To meet this requirement, the post
was obligated to place approximately $5.5
billion into a pension fund each year between
2007 and 2016, followed by additional large
annual payments.
The measure has been a fiendish strait-
jacket, akin to making a prospective home-
owner cover an entire thirty-year mortgage
before the ink is dry on the deed. The provi-
sion is even more onerous given that the
government requires the treasury to invest
all postal workers’ retiree money in govern-
ment bonds, guaranteeing miniscule returns.
Unsurprisingly, the post has defaulted on all
of its pre-funding payments since 2011, to the
tune of at least $40 billion. In each of the last
three years, the pre-funding burden well ex-
ceeded the post’s total losses. Overall, pre-
funding accounts for almost all of its losses
since 2006.
No other agency or department is subject
to this requirement. So why is the Postal
Service? The George W. Bush administration
demanded its inclusion and used the savings
it generated to try to balance the budget.
Dutiful Republicans said it was necessary to
ensure that the post doesn’t generate a
‘‘huge unfunded liability’’ that would require
a bailout from the government, an absurd
posture they still maintain. But the require-
ment’s main upshot has been to plunge the
Postal Service into a perpetual fiscal crisis
that in turn justifies further attacks from
the right. Full privatization is still neither
politically nor logistically feasible, but that
won’t stop Republicans and their allies from
trying.
Trump’s recent Postal Service task force
fits into the gradual push toward privatiza-
tion. The task force’s ultimate conclusion
bore all the hallmarks of a far-right hit job.
Rather than focusing on the Postal Service’s
pre-funding provision—which the final report
actually recommended keeping—the task
force emphasized the supposed need to lower
Postal Service delivery standards and elimi-
nate employees’ collective bargaining rights.
The task force also recommended diluting
the post’s universal service guarantee, which
would wreck the agency’s functionality in
rural communities. In a country where rural
citizens already feel detached from the rest
of the nation, such an outcome would only
widen existing cleavages. Convened in secret,
Trump’s task force was designed with the Or-
wellian purpose not to save the post, but to
further weaken it.
I am heartened that Democrats routinely
unite to oppose privatization. But merely
saying that the post should not be privatized
comes from a defensive posture. The solu-
tions we pursue must be bolder.
Any serious reformation of our post begins
with eliminating the odious pre-funding an-
chor. But that’s only the start. To really im-
prove the agency, we need to fully reject the
idea that it should be run like a business.
There is a reason why the Founders made the
Postal Service a federal department, and
there’s a reason why it remained that way
through the better part of the twentieth cen-
tury. Policymakers wanted to make sure
that Americans could affordably send and re-
ceive mail from anywhere. In pursuing that
aim, the USPS has played a key role in de-
veloping our country. To that end, we should
evaluate reviving the U.S. Post Office De-
partment and making the postmaster gen-
eral a cabinet official once more. It’s time
that we again treat this agency like a public
good rather than a private business.
Nowhere is this perspective needed more
than in Congress. In the House and Senate,
we have become hostages to a fiscal impris-
onment outlook, viewing almost every ques-
tion through the single calculation of wheth-
er it will raise or lower revenue. Republicans
have used the specter of deficits as a cudgel
to beat back funding increases for all depart-
ments and programs. Browbeaten, too many
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.031 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5138 June 25, 2019
Democrats have gone along. But while defi-
cits matter, the Postal Service isn’t running
losses because it’s inefficient. It’s running
losses because of political sabotage.
It’s time for Congress to admit that the
hybrid structure it sanctioned forty-nine
years ago is not sustainable. So long as the
post exists half as a business and half as a
public enterprise, forced to make money
even as it is constrained by preposterous
rules and counterproductive meddling, it
will wobble and teeter. Meanwhile, privatiza-
tion advocates will continue to chip away at
one of the world’s most impressive agencies.
That doesn’t mean the Postal Service
should be free of interrogation. The post, for
example, must fix its deal with Amazon. The
company ships perhaps two-thirds of its
packages through the public mail, and its
pricing and delivery terms are separate from
those afforded to other businesses that ship
through the post. This comes courtesy of a
secret 2013 negotiated service agreement
whose provisions have been hidden from even
Congress. The secrecy suggests that Amazon
is getting a deal other retailers don’t enjoy.
There is some logic for a deal between the
post and Amazon. But if the world’s best de-
livery system is awarding Amazon a volume
discount, it makes it more difficult for the
company’s competitors to challenge Ama-
zon’s prices. This sets a dangerous example
for competition policy. The U.S. Postal Serv-
ice is a public facility. It should not be used
to further entrench the monopolistic power
of a private company. Nor does it need to.
Amazon does not have the post’s infrastruc-
ture, and Jeff Bezos’s vaunted delivery
drones aren’t yet operational. The Postal
Service’s biggest rivals, UPS and FedEx,
simply can’t match the agency’s services. In
negotiations, the post should take a harder
line and force Amazon to pay more.
Congress can help spur the Postal Service
into bargaining harder by using its hearing
power to make the current Amazon deal pub-
lic. Given that Congress has paid so little at-
tention to the agency in the past, this kind
of engagement is sorely needed. Currently,
the House subcommittee that deals with the
USPS is responsible for monitoring a mind-
boggling number of other federal functions
and agencies, including (but not limited to)
government management and accounting;
federal property; intergovernmental affairs.
including with state and local governments;
and the entire civil service. It’s no wonder
the post has become of tertiary importance
in the people’s house. Between 2005 and 2018,
the House Oversight Committee held 417
hearings, of which just seven were related to
postal issues. This negligence helps explain
why legislation that kneecaps the USPS,
like the 2006 Postal Accountability and En-
hancement Act, glides through Congress be-
fore members really consider its con-
sequences.
The two House members with the most
control over postal issues, House Oversight
Committee chairman Elijah Cummings and
government operations subcommittee head
Gerry Connolly, are champions of the Postal
Service, and I believe they will dedicate at-
tention to the issues facing the agency. But
both of their bodies are swamped with other
valuable work, including bringing needed
oversight to the river of corruption flowing
from the Trump administration. Over the
next few years, Congress should therefore
consider bringing back the full Postal and
Civil Service Committee or, at the very
least, creating an exclusive postal sub-
committee.
To truly move beyond playing defense,
however, Democrats need to reimagine what
the Postal Service can do. It is, after all, one
of the most remarkable physical systems
ever created. With arms in every single zip
code, from Key West, Florida, to Utqiagvik,
Alaska, its expansiveness opens up a world of
opportunity.
In many American communities, the post
office was historically called the ‘‘federal
building,’’ and it served as a one-stop shop
for numerous governmental needs.
(Tellingly, FDR wanted Social Security to be
administered through posts to assure its ac-
cessibility.) In smaller towns and cities, for
example, the post office was a focal point for
immigrant registration, military recruit-
ment, and distributing income tax forms.
There is no reason that America’s post of-
fices can’t again provide a variety of impor-
tant governmental functions. Indeed, today’s
post offices should have all tax forms readily
available. The government should even con-
sider stationing IRS adjutants at post offices
around tax time, which would ease what is,
for many Americans, one of the most stress-
ful times of the year.
The Postal Service could also expand on
the passport assistance it already provides.
Many post offices take passport photos and
process some first-time applicants and re-
newals. Often, this is by appointment only. I
believe that post offices should offer full
passport services to any American who
walks through the doors. In addition to serv-
ing as a gateway to America’s bureaucracy,
the post could serve as a door to the rest of
the world.
State governments should take advantage
of America’s postal infrastructure as well, in
particular by expanding the use of vote by
mail, which when done right is proven to in-
crease political participation. Turning mail-
boxes into voting booths would therefore be
good for the engagement of our citizenry.
The post could further weave itself into
American democracy by allowing congres-
sional representatives to station their dis-
trict staff right in community post offices.
But perhaps the most promising service
that post offices could provide is banking.
Today, sixty-eight million Americans, more
than a quarter of U.S. households, lack ac-
cess to adequate banking services. Many are
shut out by high fees tied to minimum bal-
ances, overdrafts, direct deposit penalties,
and ATM charges. As a result, they are left
to unregulated payday lenders and check
cashers that level obscene annual percentage
rates. The postal inspector general found
that underbanked Americans spend $89 bil-
lion each year on financial fees. This closed
system shackles families to poverty, further
cementing the economic inequality tearing
our country apart.
Postal branches could offer a range of
banking services—including savings ac-
counts, deposit services, and even small lend-
ing—at a 90 percent discount compared to
what predatory lenders provide, according to
a report commissioned by the USPS inspec-
tor general. This would give many families
an average savings of $2,000 a year while put-
ting nearly $9 billion into the post’s coffers.
Postal banking could even unite liberals
and Trump supporters. Rural communities
are America’s most bank starved: 90 percent
of zip codes lacking a bank or credit union
lie in rural areas. Bank branches are also
sparse in poorer urban areas, and 46 percent
of Latino and 49 percent of African American
households are unbanked. The Postal Service
is well positioned to help both communities.
Some 59 percent of post offices lie in ‘‘bank
deserts,’’ or places where there is no more
than one branch. Where financial institu-
tions close their doors to these communities,
post offices remain open to anyone who
walks inside. And this change wouldn’t even
need the approval of Congress, requiring only
the postmaster general’s consent. Pilot pro-
grams could then begin immediately—in-
cluding in places like 194 Ward Street in my
own city of Paterson.
Ultimately, these reforms would expand on
the post’s democratic tradition. For cen-
turies, the agency has connected far-flung
parts of the country at little cost. Letting it
help citizens pay their taxes, obtain pass-
ports, vote, and bank would better connect
Americans with their federal government. In
doing so, these reforms could help mend our
citizenry’s chronically low confidence in the
federal government. They could also make
the agency’s contribution to public life—al-
ready enormous—more visible to the people
it serves. And that would make it more dif-
ficult for anti-government zealots to tear the
agency apart.
Mr. PASCRELL. It is high time that
we as a body come together to enact
sensible postal reform. This amend-
ment is a small step in that direction.
Mr. Chairman, I thank Representa-
tive PRESSLEY and Representative
AMODEI for joining me in offering this
bipartisan amendment. I strongly en-
courage my colleagues to join me in
supporting this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL).
The amendment was agreed to.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Chair, I move
that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. PAS-
CRELL) having assumed the chair, Mr.
KEATING, Chair of the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union, reported that that Committee,
having had under consideration the bill
(H.R. 3351) making appropriations for
financial services and general govern-
ment for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes,
had come to no resolution thereon.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 4 o’clock and 44 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1801
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. VEASEY) at 6 o’clock and
1 minute p.m.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 3401, EMERGENCY SUPPLE-
MENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
AND SECURITY AT THE SOUTH-
ERN BORDER ACT, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–128) on the
resolution (H. Res. 462) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3401)
making emergency supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.032 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5139
June 25, 2019
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses, which was referred to the House
Calendar and ordered to be printed.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 3401, EMERGENCY SUP-
PLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
FOR HUMANITARIAN ASSIST-
ANCE AND SECURITY AT THE
SOUTHERN BORDER ACT, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 462 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 462
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider in the
House the bill (H.R. 3401) making emergency
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes. All points of order against consid-
eration of the bill are waived. The amend-
ment printed in the report of the Committee
on Rules accompanying this resolution shall
be considered as adopted. The bill, as amend-
ed, shall be considered as read. All points of
order against provisions in the bill, as
amended, are waived. Clause 2(e) of rule XXI
shall not apply during consideration of the
bill. The previous question shall be consid-
ered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and
on any further amendment thereto, to final
passage without intervening motion except:
(1) one hour of debate equally divided and
controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Appropria-
tions; and (2) one motion to recommit with
or without instructions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Massachusetts is recog-
nized for 1 hour.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to the distin-
guished gentleman from Oklahoma
(Mr. COLE), pending which I yield my-
self such time as I may consume. Dur-
ing consideration of this resolution, all
time yielded is for the purpose of de-
bate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, today,
the Rules Committee met and reported
a rule, House Resolution 462, providing
for consideration of H.R. 3401 under a
closed rule. One hour of general debate
has been provided, controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Appropriations.
Mr. Speaker, I have fought for human
rights my entire career. As co-chair of
the Tom Lantos Human Rights Com-
mission, I have seen troubling condi-
tions abroad, but never in my wildest
imagination did I ever think I would
see such inhumane conditions here at
home, all because of the President’s
cruel and failed immigration policies.
We have children today at border fa-
cilities forced to sleep on concrete
floors, with the lights kept on 24 hours
a day. They are not being given soap,
diapers, or even a toothbrush. Lice
combs are being shared. Bottles aren’t
able to be washed. In some cases, chil-
dren are being supervised by other kids
not much older than themselves.
This is happening in America today
because of the choices made by Presi-
dent Trump. It is horrific. This is child
abuse, plain and simple.
In a document obtained by ABC
News, one physician who visited re-
cently described the conditions there
by saying: ‘‘The conditions within
which they are held could be compared
to torture facilities.’’
Torture facilities, Mr. Speaker, at
the behest of this administration. This
should sicken every single American.
This administration seems to relish
this and use the lives of these children
as political theater. The President even
had the audacity to claim, ‘‘We’re
doing a fantastic job under the cir-
cumstances.’’
Are you kidding me? Lives are being
torn apart. There were some children
who we know will never be reunited
with their families, who are being
locked in cages and forced to endure in-
humane and unspeakable conditions.
There is a special place in hell for
those who are ripping children from
the arms of their mothers, putting
them in cages without even a blanket,
arguing that they shouldn’t even get
basic necessities like a toothbrush.
If your heart doesn’t break, if you
don’t want to do everything you can to
end this, then you should really take a
hard look in the mirror. This majority
doesn’t agree with the President’s poli-
cies. We will not turn a blind eye to
this humanitarian catastrophe.
This bill delivers billions to provide
necessities like food, water, and blan-
kets, and it will also fund things like
legal assistance and support services
for unaccompanied children and refu-
gees.
There are also strict limits here on
influx shelters. It protects sponsors
from DHS immigration enforcement
based on information collected by HHS
during the vetting process. It creates
strong oversight by Congress, including
to protect unaccompanied children.
This legislation also reverses the ad-
ministration’s senseless decision to
block the humanitarian funding that
Congress has already appropriated for
the Northern Triangle countries.
At the same time, we do not provide
a single penny for the President’s
failed mass-detention policy. There are
humane alternatives here instead be-
cause we are not going to help this
President continue this cruelty.
Mr. Speaker, this is not a perfect
measure, but this isn’t a big immigra-
tion bill. This is an appropriations bill.
I want to recognize the extraordinary
leadership of Chairwoman LOWEY,
Chairwoman DELAURO, and Chair-
woman ROYBAL-ALLARD. They have
been dedicated to getting this done.
The updated language submitted
today will enhance protections for the
rights and for the dignity of migrants
even further.
It wasn’t too long ago that President
Reagan said America was best rep-
resented as ‘‘the shining city upon a
hill.’’ It should sicken all of us that
this administration apparently be-
lieves this country is, instead, best rep-
resented by separated children living in
filth in a cage down by the border.
I urge all my colleagues to vote for
this bill and the underlying legislation
so we can honor our values and show
the real humanity of the American
people.
I reserve the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume, and I
thank my good friend, the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN),
for yielding me the customary 30 min-
utes.
Mr. Speaker, we are here today on
our second rule of the day. This one is
on a supplemental appropriations bill
for the southern border. While the
Rules Committee met to consider this
bill last night and took testimony on
it, due to some reported revolts in the
Democratic Caucus, we did not actu-
ally report this bill out last night.
Instead, we met on this bill at 5:30
this afternoon and reported it to the
floor 10 minutes later, using the same-
day authority that Chairman MCGOV-
ERN has so often referred to as martial
law.
Our emergency meeting this after-
noon includes several last-minute
changes in the bill that have provided
little opportunity for anyone on either
side of the aisle to actually review.
Tragically, that is the story of this
bill: last-minute changes made on
short notice in an attempt to push
through a partisan agenda at the ex-
pense of not only deliberation and con-
sideration by the House of Representa-
tives but, more importantly, at the ex-
pense of innocent children.
H.R. 3401 is a supplemental appro-
priations bill providing funding for the
humanitarian crisis on the southern
border. When it comes to H.R. 3401, I
have good news and bad news.
The good news is that the Democrats
finally agree that we need a supple-
mental appropriations funding bill for
the southern border after Republicans
have been sounding the alarm for
months. The fact is, as my friends
know, the President first requested as-
sistance in this matter on May 1, al-
most 2 months ago.
A lot of the crisis at the border is be-
cause my friends simply didn’t dis-
charge their responsibilities. If you are
the guy that is supposed to pay for the
toothpaste and the soap, and you don’t,
you have some measure of responsi-
bility when they are not delivered on
time.
There is actually some more good
news here. There is a real opportunity
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.094 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5140 June 25, 2019
for us to produce a bipartisan, bi-
cameral bill that can become law.
The bad news is that H.R. 3401 is not
that bill. In here, the majority is once
again making no pretense to even pre-
tending to work with the minority.
H.R. 3401 contains several partisan
provisions.
It fails to provide supplemental fund-
ing for the Department of Defense de-
spite the significant resources the mili-
tary has expended responding to this
crisis.
It includes partisan policy riders that
tie the hands of the administration and
fail to provide the flexibility necessary
for the government to adequately ad-
dress the crisis.
Most notably, this bill was produced
without any Republican input at all.
Mr. Speaker, I want to reiterate what
I said a moment ago. Both Republicans
and now Democrats agree that there is
a need for a supplemental appropria-
tions bill. Why the majority failed to
take advantage of the opportunity this
agreement provides, I don’t know.
Until the majority chooses to work
with Republicans on this and produce a
bipartisan bill, I fear we will simply be
heading down the exact same path we
have trodden so often before in this
Congress, with the House pushing yet
another piece of partisan legislation
that will not pass the Senate and will
not be signed into law by the Presi-
dent. That is disappointing, to say the
least.
Mr. Speaker, this state of affairs
could and should have been avoided. In-
stead of pushing three partisan bills
this week, the majority could have
chosen to work with Republicans to
craft bipartisan bills to address all
three of these problems.
Even if that did not come to pass, the
majority at the Rules Committee could
have worked with us to make minority
amendments in order and to give all
Members an opportunity to fix these
flawed bills on the floor, or at least be
heard. That they did not is merely yet
another indication of where the major-
ity’s priorities lie, with pushing par-
tisan bills to score political points and
avoiding doing the hard work of actu-
ally making law.
There is a chance to change this, Mr.
Speaker, but in order to do so, the ma-
jority needs to decide whether they are
here to score political points or if they
are here to make law.
I remind my friends on the other
side, passing a bill that is a partisan
bill through this Chamber won’t solve
the problem. I congratulate them on
having a vehicle to go to conference.
That is a good thing. But when they
get there, they are going to find out
they are going to have to do something
they haven’t done, frankly, throughout
their tenure in the majority, and that
is actually sit down and compromise
with people on the other side of the
aisle and work with the administra-
tion.
I hope they prove up to that task be-
cause if they don’t, we will have ex-
actly the same result—that is, legisla-
tion passing here but not succeeding in
the other Chamber.
That will not solve the crisis on the
border. It will exacerbate it.
Mr. Chair, I urge opposition to the
rule, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, at this
moment, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. WOODALL), my good friend.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend on the Rules Committee for
yielding.
I love coming down to the House
floor during Rules Committee time,
Mr. Speaker. It is kind of a one-on-one
relationship we have with the gen-
tleman in that chair. It is a one-on-one
relationship with our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle.
Candidly, I like the members of the
Rules Committee. We have men and
women up there who fight hard on ab-
solutely everything every day, not be-
cause they are trying to be obstinate,
but because they really believe in what
they are doing.
When my friend from Massachusetts
said earlier he takes a backseat to no
one when it comes to standing up for
children, I believe that is absolutely
true.
b 1815
But the ranking member, the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma, also takes a
backseat to no one. I have seen him
and his leadership as chair of the
Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies Sub-
committee last year. He was taking
slings and arrows from all sides, fight-
ing the Republicans, fighting the
Democrats, fighting Northerners,
Southerners, all folks of all stripes,
trying to do the right thing for the
right reasons.
My friend from Massachusetts says
that the administration is using chil-
dren for political theater. This isn’t a
Republican or Democrat problem. This
is a House problem we are having.
The Senate, Republicans and Demo-
crats, came together nearly unani-
mously to move a bill that we could
send to the White House today that
would fund the problems that the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts referenced
immediately, the funding shortfalls
immediately, the problems in staffing
immediately, and the problems in
counseling immediately.
Instead, as the gentleman from Okla-
homa pointed out, we tried to move a
bill last night at midnight. It fell apart
because the Democratic Caucus didn’t
have enough votes to move it, and in
the last 12 hours, instead of coming to
Republicans to try to find a bipartisan
pathway forward, the Democratic Cau-
cus has been largely insular looking for
a pathway to follow alone.
My friend from Massachusetts is 100
percent right. This is an issue that
should not be used to score partisan
points. It should not be used for polit-
ical theater. It is an opportunity, one
among many, but perhaps the most im-
portant for us to come together and
unite around things that every man
and woman in this Chamber believes
in, and that is serving our fellow man.
As the gentleman from Oklahoma
said, we can start that road towards
conference with the passage of this bill
tonight. But if we reject this bill and
bring up the Senate bill, we don’t have
to start the pathway towards con-
ference. We can start the pathway to-
wards progress, towards solution. We
can end the talk and begin the action.
I think that is what every Member of
this Chamber wants to do, and I hope
they will take yes for an answer.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, let me
provide a little bit of a news flash for
my Republican friends. The Senate bill
has a hold on it by a Republican from
the home State of the Senate Majority
Leader, and I saw a news report today
that the chairman of the Appropria-
tions Committee in the Senate, Mr.
SHELBY, was asked by a reporter: Do
you have assurance that the President
would sign the bill that the Senate pro-
duced?
Mr. SHELBY replied that he did not.
So this is moving, and I would urge
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle
to support it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, let
me thank the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts, and let me also indicate to
my good friends on the other side of
the aisle how grateful I am to the
Democratic leadership who put chil-
dren first and have worked with the
CHC, the CPC, the CBC, and the whole
Democratic Caucus for the passionate
views that Members have, many of the
Members who have made repeated trips
to the border.
As a Representative from a border
State living with this on a very daily
basis and interacting with my col-
leagues who live actually on the border
but also seeing the results of it by
many of those who have come to Hous-
ton, Texas, I understand that we have
to get this right.
Let me also say to my good friend
Chris Cuomo, who, night after night
after night after night, would ask the
question, ‘‘What is Congress doing?’’ I
can assure him that the mess that we
are in, unfortunately, goes right to the
foot and the front door of the White
House, for if it were not the overfocus
on building a wall, or the insisting on
maintaining individuals on the Mexi-
can border when Mexico is not pre-
pared, or the steering away of funds
from the likes of Guatemala, Honduras,
and El Salvador and the rage of indi-
viduals who are fleeing in desperation
to get away from persecution and hav-
ing the right to claim the legal right of
asylum, which is international law,
maybe we would not be here.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.096 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5141
June 25, 2019
The reason why I can say that is be-
cause, in the last couple of hours, the
head of CBP, in good conscience, in
their own moral compass, and in their
own standard of what is right and what
is indignity, could not stand by where
almost 100 children were returned back
to the filth that they had had to live
in.
Now, I know the people in CBP. I
know that there are good, hardworking
people all over the border who work for
the Federal Government, but there is
the lack of resources because we are
being held up by individuals who did
not want to transfer or to focus on
their needs over a wall or over mass de-
portation, policies that were dis-
tracting from helping these children.
I also know that when there is a will,
there is a way. So the question of
whether or not they could find tooth-
paste, toothbrushes, and soap appalls
me, that the administration could not
readily have those resources for those
border personnel. It is a disgrace.
I know it because I was there holding
little Roger, 9 months old, who had
been separated from his family. Roger
couldn’t speak, so if he didn’t have a
clean diaper, he could not speak.
But in this bill that we are dealing
with—and we are still making sure
that we are dealing with the adminis-
tration, telling them that they have to
provide aid to Central American coun-
tries—we are doing something that is
not done: $200 million omitted from the
Senate bill for processing a Senate
pilot program.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentlewoman from Texas an addi-
tional 1 minute.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. This program
would provide medical treatment, food,
clothing, telephone access, legal rep-
resentation, asylum interviews, and
other services to migrant families and
unaccompanied children, the same
children who were down there; and we
wonder why this wealthy country and
the executive who has the ability to
move dollars around could not get the
minimal, bare needs of those people.
$92 million for medical care, which is
what I begged for; $90.6 million for tem-
porary duty and overtime; $90 million
for transport; preventing spending
money for any purpose that isn’t spe-
cifically described in the measure, such
as expanding border barriers.
More people are coming because they
are desperate, from countries, Haiti
and African countries. We are going to
get enhanced translators to help people
understand, and if they are determined
to be able to be in this country through
the asylum process, they would be al-
lowed.
We are acknowledging the fact that
there is desperation. We are acknowl-
edging the fact that our CBP and oth-
ers need to do their job, but we are ac-
knowledging the fact that this is our
responsibility. We are going to help
these children. We are going to hold
them to us like they are ours, and we
are going to make sure that there are
not these kinds of horrible descriptions
and conditions that our little babies
have to suffer through. We are going to
do that today.
Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the
Committees on the Judiciary and Homeland
Security, I rise in support of the rule governing
debate on H.R. 3401, the ‘‘Emergency Supple-
mental Appropriations for Humanitarian Assist-
ance and Security at the Southern Border Act
of 2019,’’ and the underlying legislation.
I support this legislation because it provides
the humanitarian assistance needed to ad-
dress the inhumane conditions and treatment
of immigrants, especially immigrant children,
that this administration has created and al-
lowed to persist.
The scenes emanating from the Southern
border are heartbreaking, and they have been
for a very long time.
I remember when I was at the border, vis-
iting with children separated from the border.
I remember young baby Roger, a very
young child, who should not have been sub-
ject to these conditions.
We are learning of other children living in
squalid conditions.
A chaotic scene of sickness and filth is un-
folding in an overcrowded border station in
Clint, Texas, my homestate, where hundreds
of young people who have recently crossed
the border are being held, according to law-
yers who visited the facility this week.
Some of the children have been there for
nearly a month.
Children as young as 7 and 8, many of
them wearing clothes caked with human ex-
crement and tears, are caring for infants
they’ve just met, the lawyers said.
Toddlers without diapers are relieving them-
selves in their pants.
Teenage mothers are wearing clothes
stained with breast milk.
Most of the young detainees have not been
able to shower or wash their clothes since
they arrived at the facility, those who visited
said.
They have no access to toothbrushes,
toothpaste or soap.
The arrival of thousands of migrants at a
time, overflowing the border patrol facilities of
the Customs and Border Patrol, Immigration
and Customs Enforcement and Health and
Human Services, has created a humanitarian
crisis that has resulted in unsafe, unsanitary
conditions and tragic deaths.
All sides need to come together immediately
and commit the necessary resources and ca-
pabilities to manage this situation and provide
for the basic human rights of everyone in-
volved.
If Congress and the administration fail to
come to an agreement, the situation at the
border will only deteriorate. Cutting funding to
these agencies now will not punish the agen-
cies or the administration: it will punish the mi-
grants. Congress has an urgent moral respon-
sibility to protect children and families, and de-
fend the health, dignity and lives of those in
need.
Conditions at Customs and Border Protec-
tion facilities along the border have been an
issue of increasing concern as officials warn
that the recent large influx of migrant families
has driven many of the facilities well past their
capacities.
In May, the inspector general for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security warned of ‘‘dan-
gerous overcrowding’’ among adult migrants
housed at the border processing center in El
Paso, with up to 900 migrants being held at a
facility designed for 125. In some cases, cells
designed for 35 people were holding 155 peo-
ple.
This is why it is imperative to support this
supplemental funding bill, which:
Provides $4.5 billion in emergency spending
to address the humanitarian crisis at the bor-
der—securing robust funding for priorities in-
cluding legal assistance, food, water, sanitary
items, blankets and medical services, support
services for unaccompanied children, and ref-
ugee services, which will relieve the horrific
situation of over-crowding and help prevent
additional deaths.
Protects families and does not fund the ad-
ministration’s failed mass detention policy—
funding effective, humane alternatives to de-
tention with a proven track record of success,
placing strict limits on influx shelters, pro-
tecting sponsors from DHS immigration en-
forcement based on information collected by
HHS during the vetting process and creating
strong oversight by Congress including to pro-
tect unaccompanied children.
Helps address the roots causes of the cri-
sis—reversing the administration’s senseless
decision to block the U.S. assistance that
Congress has already appropriated for the
Northern Triangle countries, and ensuring
funding is used responsibly to improve border
security, stop human smuggling and drug traf-
ficking, combat corruption and reduce poverty
and promote growth in Central America.
And the bill is sure to guarantee that it does
not use the emergency that is this crisis, for
the purpose of advancing any other policy ob-
jectives.
Specifically, the supplemental also contains
important oversight provisions to hold the ad-
ministration accountable and to protect the
rights and dignity of migrants, including:
No funding for a border wall or barriers, or
for ICE detention beds;
Prohibits the use of funds for any purpose
not specifically described;
Places strict conditions on influx shelters to
house children by mandating compliance with
requirements set forth in the Flores settlement;
Protects sponsors and potential sponsors
from DHS immigration enforcement based on
information collected by HHS during the spon-
sor vetting process;
Ensures congressional oversight visits to fa-
cilities caring for unaccompanied children with-
out a requirement for prior notice;
Requires monthly reporting on unaccom-
panied children separated from their families;
Requires additional reporting about the
deaths of children in government custody; and
Ensures CBP facilities funded in the bill
comply with the National Standards on Trans-
port, Escort, Detention, and Search.
I urge all members to support the rule and
the underlying legislation.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we have heard some
pretty harsh words about the adminis-
tration’s failure to respond. The reality
is the administration asked 2 months
ago of our friends who were slow to re-
spond.
The administration warned us of
what would happen, and it is unfolding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.097 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5142 June 25, 2019
in front of our eyes, and it is unfolding
because of the failure of Democrats in
the House to actually take it seriously.
Let’s go back to the rhetoric at the
time: it is a manufactured crisis; it is
not real; it is all made up.
That turned out to be a bad mistake,
and it set us back weeks in this Cham-
ber getting to where we finally are be-
ginning to get a response.
Frankly, our friends simply couldn’t
get their act together on this for a
while. I am glad they are beginning to
do that now.
But let’s also look at a little history,
Mr. Speaker.
This problem isn’t new. What is new
is the slowness to respond. We faced
this very same problem when we were
in the majority and President Obama
was in office in 2014. He asked for $3.7
billion. He got it within 24 days, and he
got it without a lot of extraneous con-
ditions added on it. That is exactly the
opposite of the manner in which our
friends on the other side are responding
at the last minute. But they are re-
sponding, and for that I give them
some credit.
But again, what is new is the slow-
ness of response, the unwillingness to
work with the other Chamber, and the
unwillingness to work with the Presi-
dent to meet an emergency that he
warned us was coming 2 months ago.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. ROY).
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for his leadership here on
the floor today.
Is there a crisis?
I think there is, and I am glad that
we are here today where our colleagues
on the other side of the aisle are finally
acknowledging that there is a crisis.
Not that long ago, the Speaker of the
House called the situation a fake crisis
at the border. Senate Minority Leader
SCHUMER called it a crisis that does not
exist. The House majority leader said
that there is no crisis at the border.
The House Democratic Caucus chair-
man, HAKEEM JEFFRIES, said that there
is no crisis at the border. House For-
eign Affairs Committee Chairman
ENGEL called the situation a fake crisis
at the border. House Judiciary Com-
mittee Chairman JERRY NADLER said
that there is no crisis at the border.
Representative DEBBIE WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ said that we don’t have a bor-
der crisis.
I could go on and on and on of state-
ments on the record, in the news
media, in this building, and in this
Chamber saying that there is no border
crisis. Now, either that is putting your
head in the sand and ignoring the facts
in front of you, or it was very purpose-
ful. It was very purposeful to try to
hide the fact that there is, in fact, a
crisis for some sort of cynical political
gain.
The fact of the matter is, in May of
this year, there were 84,000 families
that attempted to enter the country
and that were apprehended—84,000,
which is more than all of 2014. Anybody
with eyes, anybody who has gone to the
border has seen that there has been a
crisis for months on end, and our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
were willfully ignoring it.
President Obama, in 2014, put forward
a bill, legislation, that was introduced
by Senator Mikulski that added $762
million in it for ICE to deal with unac-
companied children at the time, which,
today, our colleagues on the other side
of the aisle say we cannot do. President
Obama was asking for money for ICE,
and today we are told, no, you can’t
have any money for ICE.
But if the majority doesn’t provide
resources to ICE, where are they going
to put the children whom they say they
want to take care of? Where are they
going to put the families? Where are
they going to put the people they are
detaining at the border?
When the majority creates a tent fa-
cility at CBP to process people at the
border, as this bill suggests doing, they
have no resources in there for DOD;
they have no resources in there for ICE
in any significant way; and they have
no place to put the people they say
they want to take care of in this bill.
What are they asking CBP and what
are they asking our people at the bor-
der to do?
Then the majority has the audacity
to point at ICE and CBP and tell them
they are failing to do their jobs when,
for months on end, we have not pro-
vided the resources necessary for them
to do their job.
The American people sent us here to
solve problems, and one of those is to
secure the border of the United States
and to ensure those people who seek to
come here can do so safely, yet we bury
our head in the sand for political gain
and ignore the facts on the ground.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentleman from Texas an additional 30
seconds.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, this legisla-
tion falls short. This legislation that
the House leadership has put forward
has been late, does not address the
problem, and will, in fact, make the
problem worse by binding the hands of
Border Patrol and binding the hands of
the people whom we have asked to do
their job.
We should reject this legislation. We
should work together to provide legis-
lation that would actually solve the
problem and stop enriching cartels on
the backs of human beings because the
strongest nation in the history of the
world refuses to acknowledge the prob-
lem that cartels are exploiting asylum
laws and human beings for profit.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me just say to the
gentleman from Texas, he went
through a series of quotes, and I think
what Democrats were responding to
was the crisis that the President was
talking about.
The President, as you know, Mr.
Speaker, for years has been railing
against immigrants. He talked about
an infestation of immigrants. He has
characterized immigrants in the most
derogatory and the most hateful terms
possible, that we were being invaded.
That is not the crisis that we are talk-
ing about here today.
The crisis we are talking about here
today is the one the President created,
the mistreatment of children in U.S.
custody. There is no denying it.
Read the press accounts. Read The
New Yorker; read The New York
Times; and read The Washington
Times. They talk about how little chil-
dren have been mistreated at the bor-
der under U.S. custody, and that should
offend every single person in this
Chamber; and that this administration
created and manufactured this crisis in
order to make political points, I think,
is unconscionable.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
gentlewoman from California (Mrs.
DAVIS).
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise in support of the rule and the
underlying bill.
Mr. Speaker, let me just tell you
about a family at our local shelter in
San Diego. The mother and the father
owned a successful fruit stand in Gua-
temala, and they were threatened by a
gang for money.
b 1830
If they didn’t pay, the safety of their
children was in jeopardy.
Eventually, one of their kids was in-
jured on his way home from school, and
the mother shared that it was com-
mon—common—for the gangs to shoot
into the air and for shrapnel to hit un-
intended objects and, sometimes, peo-
ple.
The gangs also targeted young, fe-
male children, attempting to use them
as prostitutes.
The question that we have had before
us is: What do we do? What do we do
with families? What do we do with chil-
dren separated from their families that
come 1,000 miles to escape violence?
What are our choices? Do we shut the
door? Do we keep them detained under
inhumane conditions or hear their
case?
So, we must consider who we are as a
country and what are our values. The
least we can do—the least we can do—
is to provide basic care while their case
is heard.
Today’s proposed funding is crucial
to helping improve humanitarian ef-
forts at the border. This crisis, we
know, will only get worse if we don’t
act now, so let’s act now. Let’s act
now. Let’s pass this rule, and let’s pass
the underlying bill.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO), my
good friend and fellow member of the
Rules Committee.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, being
from Arizona, this issue is very impor-
tant to me, and it has been for years.
I am glad that my Democratic col-
leagues are finally acknowledging that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.099 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5143
June 25, 2019
there is a crisis at the border, because
we have known there was a crisis for,
what, 20 years now, and it keeps grow-
ing and growing.
The reason I say that: I know, today,
everyone is standing up and saying,
‘‘Let’s help everyone.’’ And I am glad
of that, but it wasn’t that long ago, on
national TV, that Speaker PELOSI and
Senator SCHUMER went in front of the
public and said: This is a manufactured
crisis. Trump and the Republicans are
making it all up.
Well, if anyone goes to the border,
like I have gone to the border, you will
see that it is a real crisis and it is
growing each and every day. That is
why President Trump asked for hu-
manitarian aid on May 1.
Then, the Department of Homeland
Security and HHS sent all of us this
letter—all of us Congressmen and Con-
gresswomen—saying: We need help
now. We are running out of funds. This
is a crisis.
So, the Republicans made motion
after motion after motion—17 times—
asking for humanitarian aid.
And what did my Democrat col-
leagues do? They said no. No. They re-
jected every one.
So, here I am in Rules Committee
last night—it is almost midnight—and
we thought we were going to vote on
this bill, on the humanitarian aid.
Nope. Pulled out. Nope. I guess they
couldn’t get the votes over on the
Democratic side.
So, then they did a change. From
what the media said, some of their
more progressive members demanded
some requirements and changes.
So we were supposed to meet at rules
at 11 a.m. this morning with a new bill.
Nope. That was pulled.
So, here we are. We got the new
version of the bill at 5:00 tonight. We
had the rules meeting at 5:30. Then we
started the rules debate at 6:00. We
didn’t even have time to read the bill.
So, I have some major concerns with
this bill. I wish we had worked on a bi-
partisan basis.
To give you one example, there was a
young girl who died in Arizona—actu-
ally, was found dead—7 years old. And
guess who helped rescue the other
members of the party? It was the Ari-
zona National Guard.
Yet, the bill prevents any funding
from going to the Department of De-
fense that will help with the Arizona
National Guard and other national
guards that are helping at the border.
I really wish that we could work to-
gether in a bipartisan fashion, get
something done, go back to rules.
Let’s do a clean bill. Let’s send it to
the Senate tonight. Let’s help solve
this crisis now.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Let me just say, I am so sorry the
gentlewoman was inconvenienced, but I
think she misspoke when she said that
Republicans—or she—just received the
bill at 5:00.
The bill has been available since last
week. The only thing that was dif-
ferent was there was an amendment, a
manager’s amendment. It was seven
pages long, double spaced, on single
sides. It didn’t take that long to read.
So, I am sorry whether or not she
couldn’t get through it all, but it is not
a new bill. This bill has been around.
Let me also say, again, for the
record: We don’t agree. We don’t agree
with the crisis that the President has
been talking about for years and years
and years and years, the derogatory
fashion and way in which he refers to
immigrants. We don’t agree.
He talked about there being an infes-
tation of immigrants, that we are
being invaded. No, that is not the cri-
sis.
The crisis that he created, that this
administration created, which should,
quite frankly, cause more outrage on
the other side of the aisle, was sepa-
rating children from their parents.
And, as we gather here today, there are
countless children who may never be
reunited with their parents.
The crisis that he created was deny-
ing these children in our custody basic
things—basic necessities like soap,
toothpaste, toothbrushes—and where
little kids were being taken care of by
other little kids.
This is an outrage, and it is a crisis
that he manufactured, that he created.
And we need to fix it.
So, that is what this bill is trying to
do. If my colleagues on the other side
of the aisle don’t want to support it,
fine. But we are going to do what is
right. That is why we ran for office.
That is why we won the last election,
because people were horrified by what
was happening at the border, the way
we were treating other human beings.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS), my
good friend.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I just want
to say at the outset that the conde-
scending tone towards our side by the
previous speaker is really uncalled for,
and, quite frankly, it is unparliamen-
tary in and of itself.
When he talks about political points
being unconscionable, that may be an
understatement.
Let me just tell you something.
When I was down at the border re-
cently, the DEA informed me of a little
girl who was forced to take care of two
young children. She is the age of 11.
She had been trafficked. She had been
trafficked by cartels right into
Charleston, South Carolina.
Right there, at that position, many
people—40 or more people—had used
that location in Charleston as a spon-
sor to be released under the catch-and-
release problem that we have, because
we are overcrowded at the border. We
have no place to keep them.
This bill doesn’t fix that. This bill
doesn’t fix that. If you wanted to take
care of a humanitarian issue, you
would give ICE some money for beds.
And that little girl, age 11, is taking
care of two young boys—until what?
Until that cartel affiliate in Charles-
ton, South Carolina, could send those
three children back to be used on the
border for a faux family unit to come
back in.
That is what is unconscionable, the
fact that we are not funding ICE when
ICE has a 10,000-bed shortage, when
CBP has a 15,000-bed shortage.
You want to talk about lack of hu-
manitarian care: This bill doesn’t take
care of that because the bill from my
colleagues across the aisle does not ad-
dress giving ICE and CBP what they
need to hold on to people, so you can
keep families together.
That is the reality of the situation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentleman from Arizona an additional
30 seconds.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
So, that program that my colleagues
across the aisle are putting together in
this bill enshrines catch-and-release. It
also facilitates human trafficking—it
does—just like we saw with the little
girl who was sent to Charleston, South
Carolina, and was going to be sent back
and used by cartels as a fake family
unit.
That is what is unconscionable here,
and I would urge my colleagues to op-
pose the rule.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I ap-
preciate the comments from the gen-
tleman from Arizona. He talks about
ICE. He wants more funding for ICE.
The previous speaker talked about
more money for the Department of De-
fense.
We are talking about children here.
That is what this bill addresses: money
for State-licensed shelters, legal serv-
ices, child advocates, post-release serv-
ices, Federal field specialists, case
management services, and money for
the Office of the Inspector General.
The humanitarian crisis is that chil-
dren are being mistreated at our border
and we need to address it, and that is
what we are trying to do with this bill.
So, I appreciate all the other things
that my Republican friends want to
fund, but the crisis that we need to ad-
dress right now is the mistreatment of
children at our border.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I just want
to briefly yield myself such time as I
may consume to make a quick point.
My friend is saying there is no money
for Border Patrol and the military.
Whose custody do you think those chil-
dren are in for the first couple of days?
The problems are actually at those
facilities. They have not been identi-
fied at Health and Human Services,
other than they are just simply too full
because my friends have spent so much
time arguing about this rather than
giving the administration the money
that it asked for in a timely fashion, 2
months ago.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.101 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5144 June 25, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS),
my very good friend, fellow Rules Com-
mittee member, and distinguished doc-
tor.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding. Yes, I am a
member of the Rules Committee. I am
also a member of the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
The Energy and Commerce Health
Subcommittee has under their jurisdic-
tion the Office of Refugee Resettle-
ment.
So, the Department of Health and
Human Services is tasked with caring
for unaccompanied children who are
transferred from Customs and Border
Protection at their processing centers.
I have seen this firsthand on many
trips to the HHS Office of Refugee Re-
settlement shelters.
HHS personnel work hard. They pro-
vide quality, compassionate care to
children who cross the border without
legal status.
These facilities have security to pro-
tect the children inside, but a child
who wants to leave may request to be
returned to their home country, and
they may do so with on-site social
work.
In my experience, all shelters I have
visited are designed appropriately for
the ages of the children who are occu-
pying them. If an older teen decides, of
their own volition, that they need to
leave, they are neither detained nor re-
strained.
So, it bothers me when I hear these
facilities referred to as detainment
centers or child prisons. Office of Ref-
ugee Resettlement are shelters to pro-
tect these children while they are
awaiting placement in homes in this
country.
And I do need to add one other thing.
This is a closed rule. It is a shame we
are doing it as a closed rule. I offered
an amendment up in the Rules Com-
mittee a few moments ago to reim-
burse the State of Texas for the $800
million that Governor Abbott has felt
is required to send down to the border
for border security.
Governor Perry did it in his adminis-
tration.
This is an ongoing problem for the
State of Texas. This is work that
should be done by the United States
Federal Government, and the State has
to take up and expend those dollars.
That is wrong, and it needs to change.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
The gentleman did offer an amend-
ment in the Rules Committee. He is a
member of the Rules Committee. He
knew there was a budget point of order
against it, so it was not compliant with
the rules of the House, so it wasn’t
made in order.
I am not sure what the gentleman
was talking about, about these young
children—2, 3, 4 years old—what? To re-
quest that they be sent back to their
homes, that they could somehow just
walk out of where they are being held
right now? I am not quite sure what he
is talking about.
The bottom line is, there is also
money in here for U.S. Customs and
Border Protection. My friends know
that, if they have read the bill.
So I just have to say, I think where
the outrage is here is that this admin-
istration has overseen an immigration
policy which does not reflect the values
of this country, where children have
been separated from their parents, and
now we see children being held in the
worst conditions possible.
It does not reflect the values of the
American people, and we need to pass
this bill to try to remedy that.
I reserve the balance of my time.
b 1845
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. SPANO).
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to the immigration supple-
mental that will be brought to the
floor later tonight.
While I appreciate that the majority
in this House has finally come to the
realization that there is, in fact, a cri-
sis on our southern border after spend-
ing the first 6 months denying that
fact, they continue to refuse to work
with Republicans to address the real
problem.
The bill before us today was drafted
with no Republican input. For the past
2 days, its fate has seemed uncertain,
as there are members of the Demo-
cratic conference who don’t believe we
should have a border or enforce our
laws.
We are a nation of laws. Americans
who selflessly choose to join the law
enforcement profession put their lives
on the line every day to protect Ameri-
cans and care for those in their cus-
tody. They are working overtime to
deal with this crisis. What support do
they get in this supplemental?
It doesn’t fund the pay or overtime
shortage. Instead, members of the ma-
jority party have spent the past week
calling ICE and CBP criminal agencies
that are killing children.
I want everybody to think about that
for just a moment. There are members
of the Democratic conference who are
telling Americans that ICE and CBP
are killing children in their custody.
The Democratic leadership has been
engaged in negotiations the past 2 days
to win the support of these Members.
One of the solutions contained in the
manager’s amendment is an extra $2
million for the continued operation of
the Immigration Court Help Desk pro-
gram.
The average wait time to have a case
heard in the immigration court is over
700 days. Does the bill include the $55
million that the Senate bill does for
additional immigration judges? No.
Rather, it includes $2 million for a 1–
800 number to check on the status of a
case.
The wait is over 700 days.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. I yield an additional 15
seconds to the gentleman from Florida.
Mr. SPANO. The wait is 700 days.
That is like putting a Band-Aid on a
gaping wound.
I look forward to addressing this cri-
sis, but this bill is not the solution. If
they were serious about solving the
problem, Democrats would include ad-
ditional funding to take care of our law
enforcement, which is working so hard
to address the crisis, and they would
include additional funding to reduce
the court backlog.
It is time to get serious about the
crisis. It is time to offer real solutions.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
If we defeat the previous question, I
will offer an amendment to the rule to
immediately bring up H.R. 3056, the
Border Crisis Supplemental Appropria-
tions Act of 2019.
Unlike the bill before us today, H.R.
3056 provides all the necessary funding
that the administration has requested
to address the humanitarian crisis on
the southern border. The bill provides
funding for the Department of Defense,
which has expended significant re-
sources responding to the crisis. It also
provides the funding for refugee and
entrant assistance and for U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection that the
administration has requested and has
told us is necessary to meet the crisis.
Most notably, this bill does so with-
out adding any of the partisan riders
that plague the majority’s version of
the supplemental. We can provide fund-
ing to meet this crisis without tying
the hands of the administration and
leaving them no wiggle room or flexi-
bility.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. GONZALEZ).
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio. Mr. Speak-
er, I have been sitting here now for
about 10 minutes listening to my col-
leagues on the other side saying this
solves the problem, that this bill fi-
nally solves the problem. Nothing
could be further from the truth. This is
the poorest faith effort I have ever seen
to solve the problem.
The Senate has a bipartisan bill. It is
not perfect. I don’t love that bill. But
it is a bipartisan bill that we could
vote on tonight, and we could actually
solve something. We could actually get
something done.
What happened instead? Instead, we,
as Republicans, were completely shut
out of the process, and they negotiated
amongst themselves. That solves abso-
lutely nothing. Not to mention there
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.102 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5145
June 25, 2019
isn’t a single person whom I have heard
on the other side of the aisle who has
been serious and honest about what is
actually causing this problem, about
solving the horrible incentives that we
have in our immigration system that
incentivize the most dangerous journey
up through our southern border.
I am the son of Cuban immigrants.
My family escaped from communist
Castro to come to this country and did
it legally. I would love to see a good
faith effort. My door is wide open to
anybody anywhere who wants to have a
serious conversation about how we re-
form our immigration system.
I understand my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle do not like the
President. I get that, okay? But that
doesn’t change the fact that our immi-
gration system has been broken for
decades, and the only people on planet
Earth who can solve that problem are
the ones in this body.
If my colleagues want to solve the
problem, come find me. My door is
wide open.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
I want to begin by telling my good
friend how much I respect him, how
much I admire him. I know how pas-
sionate he is on the issue of the chil-
dren. No doubt about that.
I also want to tell my friend that I
think, 8 weeks ago, we should have
been acting on this. We were told there
wasn’t a crisis, and there wasn’t a seri-
ous effort on the other side.
Last night, when my friends were
struggling to find the votes, frankly,
we could have delivered a lot of votes.
Instead, they moved the bill further to
the left to placate the most extreme
elements in their own conference. I
think that is going to make to it much
harder to come to a deal eventually
with the Senate and with the adminis-
tration.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I urge oppo-
sition to this rule. The rule will make
in order consideration of H.R. 3401, a
supplemental appropriations bill that
could have been a bipartisan bill. In-
stead, the majority chose to make it
partisan, failing to fund the national
security elements of the border crisis,
including partisan policy riders that
tie the hands of the administration.
Not to be outdone, the majority also
pushed through last-minute changes,
using the same-day rule authority that
had not been adequately considered by
anyone on either side of the aisle.
Let me just reiterate, for the record,
to reinforce the point my friend Mrs.
LESKO made. Look, we got this bill at
4:57. We convened the Rules Committee
at 5:30.
I can read things, but I can’t always
understand everything, let alone re-
search everything in 33 minutes. We
haven’t got a single opportunity to
offer a single amendment to this bill.
That is unfortunate, and I don’t
think it is a process that is likely to
lead to a successful outcome.
Mr. Speaker, I want to conclude by
urging my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on
the previous question, to vote ‘‘no’’ on
the rule, to vote ‘‘no’’ on the under-
lying measure.
Let’s go to work on a bipartisan bill.
Let’s meet all the requests the admin-
istration has asked for, in terms of re-
sources. Give them the flexibility they
need to do the job and recognize this is
not a new problem.
We dealt with it, frankly, pretty suc-
cessfully when President Obama was
here by giving them the resources and
the flexibility they needed. I am sorry
my friends are not extending that same
courtesy to the current President.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I, too, have great re-
spect for the gentleman from Okla-
homa. We don’t always agree on every-
thing, but there are some things we do
agree on.
I want to say this with great respect
for him and for the gentlewoman from
Arizona, and I am sorry if I offended
her in the way I responded to her com-
ments. But my friends had the bill for
quite some time. What is new today is
the amendment, the 7-page amend-
ment.
It is not correct to say that the bill
was just given to the minority at 4:30
or 5 today or whenever, right before we
met. The bottom line is that Members
have had it for a while. The amend-
ment, which is 7 pages, is something
new.
The amendment has been character-
ized as us moving to the left. Let me
remind people what is in this amend-
ment. There are stronger requirements
for care of unaccompanied minor chil-
dren, tightened restrictions on influx
shelters, accountability for contractors
violating standards at influx shelters,
funding for the Immigration Court
Help Desk program, ensuring access to
translation services.
That is not left or right or middle of
the road. To me, it just sounds like
common sense. To characterize this as
a move to the left, I just don’t get it.
Mr. Speaker, this administration’s
actions at the border should not be ig-
nored. What these children are going
through should not be minimized. But
that hasn’t stopped some on the other
side of the aisle from trying, as they
continue to defend any move that this
administration makes.
I mean, we didn’t hear a lot of talk
about the children in the debate on the
other side. Some did raise the issue,
but most of the talk was on other
things.
Last night, I heard one of my friends
on the other side of the aisle defend the
conditions at these border facilities in
an interview, and he came to the floor
again today. He said that there was
‘‘no lock on the door,’’ and, ‘‘Any child
is free to leave at any time. But they
don’t, and you know why? Because
they’re well taken care of.’’
Mr. Speaker, is he really suggesting
that a 3- or 4-year-old unaccompanied
child should just get up and walk out
of one of these facilities? Come on,
what are we talking about here?
I don’t know how anybody could say
being denied soap or being denied
toothbrushes and medical care is being
well taken care of, because these are
inhumane conditions, and I think it is
child abuse.
America is better than this, and we
must demand better for these kids.
Let’s vote on this rule and on the un-
derlying bill so that we can get this aid
where it is needed as quickly as pos-
sible and hold this administration ac-
countable.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. COLE is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 462
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 2. That immediately upon adoption of
this resolution, the House shall resolve into
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3056) to provide supplemental ap-
propriations relating to border security, and
for other purposes. The first reading of the
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. General debate shall be confined to
the bill and shall not exceed one hour equal-
ly divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee
on Appropriations. After general debate the
bill shall be considered for amendment under
the five-minute rule. Points of order against
provisions in the bill for failure to comply
with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived. Clause
2(e) of rule XXI shall not apply during con-
sideration of the bill. When the committee
rises and reports the bill back to the House
with a recommendation that the bill do pass,
the previous question shall be considered as
ordered on the bill and amendments thereto
to final passage without intervening motion
except one motion to recommit with or with-
out instructions. If the Committee of the
Whole rises and reports that it has come to
no resolution on the bill, then on the next
legislative day the House shall, immediately
after the third daily order of business under
clause 1 of rule XIV, resolve into the Com-
mittee of the Whole for further consideration
of the bill.
SEC. 3. Clause l(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of H.R. 3056.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of the adoption of the resolu-
tion.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 226, nays
188, not voting 18, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.104 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5146 June 25, 2019
[Roll No. 409]
YEAS—226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—188
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—18
Abraham
Amodei
Clyburn
Gabbard
Holding
Kelly (PA)
Lamborn
Levin (MI)
Long
Lucas
Meadows
Meeks
Omar
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
b 1923
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 225, nays
189, not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 410]
YEAS—225
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—189
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McKinley
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.036 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5147
June 25, 2019
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—18
Abraham
Clyburn
Gabbard
Holding
Lamborn
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Long
Lucas
McHenry
Meadows
Meeks
Omar
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE) (during the vote). There are
2 minutes remaining.
b 1932
Mr. VELA changed his vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam Speaker,
had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’
on rollcall No. 409 and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No.
410.
f
EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL AP-
PROPRIATIONS FOR HUMANI-
TARIAN ASSISTANCE AND SECU-
RITY AT THE SOUTHERN BOR-
DER ACT, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, pur-
suant to House Resolution 462, I call up
the bill (H.R. 3401) making emergency
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes, and ask for its
immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 462, the
amendment printed in House Report
116–128 shall be considered as adopted,
and the bill, as amended, is considered
read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 3401
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That the following sums
are appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW
For an additional amount for ‘‘Executive
Office for Immigration Review’’, $17,000,000
to be used only for services and activities
provided by the Legal Accesa Programs, of
which not less than $2,000,000 shall be for the
continued operation of the Immigration
Court Helpdesk Program: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
FEDERAL PRISONER DETENTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Federal
Prisoner Detention’’, $155,000,000 to be used
only for the necessary expenses related to
United States prisoners in the custody of the
United States Marshals Service as author-
ized by section 4013 of title 18, United States
Code: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND BORDER
PROTECTION
U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses to re-
spond to the significant rise in aliens at the
southwest border and related activities,
$1,217,931,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020; of which $702,500,000 is for
migrant processing facilities; of which
$92,000,000 is for consumables; of which
$19,950,000 is for medical assets and high risk
support; of which $8,000,000 is for Federal
Protective Service support; of which
$35,000,000 is for transportation; of which
$90,636,000 is for temporary duty and over-
time costs; of which $19,845,000 is for reim-
bursements for temporary duty and overtime
costs; and of which $50,000,000 is for mission
support data systems and analysis: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
migrant processing facilities, $85,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2023:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS
ENFORCEMENT
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses to re-
spond to the significant rise in aliens at the
southwest border and related activities,
$128,238,000; of which $35,943,000 is for trans-
portation of unaccompanied alien children;
of which $11,981,000 is for detainee transpor-
tation for medical needs, court proceedings,
or relocation to and from U.S. Customs and
Border Protection custody; of which
$5,114,000 is for reimbursements for overtime
and temporary duty costs; of which
$20,000,000 is for alternatives to detention; of
which $45,000,000 is for detainee medical care;
and of which $10,200,000 is for the Office of
Professional Responsibility for background
investigations and facility inspections: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Federal As-
sistance’’, $60,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, for the emergency
food and shelter program under Title III of
the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 11331 et seq.) for the purposes
of providing assistance to aliens released
from the custody of the Department of
Homeland Security: Provided, That notwith-
standing Sections 315 and 316(b) of such Act,
funds made available under this section shall
be disbursed by the Emergency Food and
Shelter Program National Board not later
than 30 days after the date on which such
funds becomes available: Provided further,
That the Emergency Food and Shelter Pro-
gram National Board shall distribute such
funds only to jurisdictions or local recipient
organizations serving communities that have
experienced a significant influx of such
aliens: Provided further, That such funds may
be used to reimburse such jurisdictions or
local recipient organizations for costs in-
curred in providing services to such aliens on
or after January 1, 2019: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 201. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds made available under each
heading in this title shall only be used for
the purposes specifically described under
that heading.
SEC. 202. Division A of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law 116–6)
is amended by adding after section 540 the
following:
‘‘SEC. 541. (a) Section 831 of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall be ap-
plied—
‘‘(1) in subsection (a), by substituting ‘Sep-
tember 30, 2019,’ for ‘September 30, 2017,’; and
‘‘(2) in subsection (c)(1), by substituting
‘September 30, 2019,’ for ‘September 30, 2017’.
‘‘(b) The Secretary of Homeland Security,
under the authority of section 831 of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
391(a)), may carry out prototype projects
under section 2371b of title 10, United States
Code, and the Secretary shall perform the
functions of the Secretary of Defense as pre-
scribed.
‘‘(c) The Secretary of Homeland Security
under section 831 of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391(d)) may use the defi-
nition of nontraditional government con-
tractor as defined in section 2371b(e) of title
10, United States Code.’’.
SEC. 203. (a) The Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security shall establish
policies and distribute written personnel
guidance, as appropriate, not later than 60
days after the date of enactment of this Act
on the following:
(1) Providing private meeting space and
video teleconferencing access for individuals
returned to Mexico under the Migrant Pro-
tection Protocols to consult with legal coun-
sel, including prior to initial immigration
court hearings.
(2) Efforts, in consultation with the De-
partment of State, to address the housing,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.037 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5148 June 25, 2019
transportation, and security needs of such
individuals.
(3) Efforts, in consultation with the De-
partment of Justice, to ensure that such in-
dividuals are briefed, in their primary spo-
ken language to the greatest extent possible,
on their legal rights and obligations prior to
being returned to Mexico.
(4) Efforts, in consultation with the De-
partment of Justice, to prioritize the immi-
gration proceedings of such individuals.
(5) The establishment of written policies
defining categories of vulnerable individuals
who should not be so returned.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘Migrant Protection Protocols’’ means the
actions taken by the Secretary to implement
the memorandum dated January 25, 2019 en-
titled ‘‘Policy Guidance for the Implementa-
tion of the Migrant Protection Protocols’’.
(c) The amounts provided by this section
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 204. None of the funds provided in this
Act under ‘‘U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion—Operations and Support’’ for facilities
shall be available until U.S. Customs and
Border Protection establishes policies (via
directive, procedures, guidance, and/or
memorandum) and training programs to en-
sure that such facilities adhere to the Na-
tional Standards on Transport, Escort, De-
tention, and Search, published in October of
2015: Provided, That not later than 90 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, U.S.
Customs and Border Protection shall provide
a detailed report to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the Senate and the House of
Representatives, the Committee on the Judi-
ciary of the Senate, and the House Judiciary
Committee regarding the establishment and
implementation of such policies and training
programs.
SEC. 205. No later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall provide a report
on the number of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection Officers assigned to Northern
Border land ports of entry and temporarily
assigned to the ongoing humanitarian crisis:
Provided, That the report shall outline what
resources and conditions would allow a re-
turn to northern border staffing levels that
are no less than the number committed in
the June 12, 2018 Department of Homeland
Security Northern Border Strategy: Provided
further, That the report shall include the
number of officers temporarily assigned to
the southwest border in response to the on-
going humanitarian crisis, the number of
days the officers will be away from their
northern border assignment, the northern
border ports from which officers are being
assigned to the southwest border, and efforts
being made to limit the impact on oper-
ations at each northern border land port of
entry where officers have been temporarily
assigned to the southwest border.
SEC. 206. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act or divi-
sion A of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2019 (Public Law 116–6) for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security may be used to
relocate to the National Targeting Center
the vetting of Trusted Traveler Program ap-
plications and operations currently carried
out at existing locations unless specifically
authorized by a statute enacted after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 207. (a) Of the additional amount pro-
vided under ‘‘U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection—Operations and Support’’,
$200,000,000 is for a multi-agency, integrated,
migrant processing center pilot program for
family units and unaccompanied alien chil-
dren, including the following:
(1) Ongoing assessment and treatment ef-
forts for physical or mental health condi-
tions, including development of a support
plan and services for each member of a vul-
nerable population.
(2) Assessments of child protection and
welfare needs.
(3) Food, shelter, hygiene services and sup-
plies, clothing, and activities appropriate for
the non-penal, civil detention of families.
(4) Personnel with appropriate training on
caring for families and vulnerable popu-
lations in a civil detention environment.
(5) Free telephonic communication access,
including support for contacting family
members.
(6) Direct access to legal orientation, legal
representation, and case management in pri-
vate areas of the center.
(7) Credible fear and reasonable fear inter-
views conducted by U.S. Citizenship and Im-
migration Services asylum officers in pri-
vate areas of the center.
(8) Granting of asylum directly by U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services for
manifestly well-founded or clearly meri-
torious cases.
(9) For family units not found removable
prior to departure from the center—
(A) release on own recognizance or place-
ment in alternatives to detention with case
management; and
(B) coordinated transport to a respite shel-
ter or city of final destination.
(10) For family units found removable prior
to departure from the center, safe return
planning support by an immigration case
manager, including a consular visit to assist
with reintegration.
(11) On-site operational support by non-
governmental organizations for the identi-
fication and protection of vulnerable popu-
lations.
(b) The Secretary shall notify the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the Senate and the
House of Representatives within 24 hours of
any—
(1) unaccompanied child placed in the pilot
program whose time in Department of Home-
land Security custody exceeds 72 hours; and
(2) family unit placed in the pilot program
whose time in such custody exceed exceeds 9
days.
(c) Prior to the obligation of the amount
identified in subsection (a), but not later
than 30 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall submit a plan
for the implementation of the pilot program
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
Senate and the House of Representatives
which shall include a definition of vulnerable
populations.
SEC. 208. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall establish final
plans, standards, and protocols to protect
the health and safety of individuals in the
custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion, which shall include——
(1) standards and response protocols for
medical assessments and medical emer-
gencies;
(2) requirements for ensuring the provision
of water, appropriate nutrition, hygiene, and
sanitation needs;
(3) standards for temporary holding facili-
ties that adhere to best practices for the care
of children, which shall be in compliance
with the relevant recommendations in the
Policy Statement of the American Academy
of Pediatrics entitled, ‘‘Detention of Immi-
grant Children’’;
(4) protocols for responding to surges of
migrants crossing the southern border or ar-
riving at land ports of entry; and
(5) required training for all Federal and
contract personnel who interact with mi-
grants on the care and treatment of individ-
uals in civil detention.
SEC. 207. Not later than 120 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall submit to the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
plan for ensuring access to appropriate
translation services for all individuals en-
countered by U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection, U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, and U.S. Citizenship and Immi-
gration Services, including an estimate of
related resource requirements and the feasi-
bility and potential benefit of these compo-
nents jointly procuring such services.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
REFUGEE AND ENTRANT ASSISTANCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Refugee and
Entrant Assistance’’ $2,881,552,000, to be
merged with and available for the same pe-
riod as funds appropriated in division B of
Public Law 115–245 and made available
through fiscal year 2021 under this heading,
and to be made available for any purpose
funded under such heading in such law: Pro-
vided, That if any part of the reprogramming
described in the notification submitted by
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
(the ‘‘Secretary’’) to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate on May 16, 2019, has been exe-
cuted as of the date of the enactment of this
Act, such amounts provided by this Act as
are necessary shall be used to reverse such
reprogramming: Provided further, That of the
amounts provided under this heading, the
amount allocated by the Secretary for costs
of leases of property that include facilities
to be used as hard-sided dormitories for
which the Secretary intends to seek State li-
censure for the care of unaccompanied alien
children, and that are executed under au-
thorities transferred to the Director of the
Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) under
section 462 of the Homeland Security Act of
2002, shall remain available until expended:
Provided further, That ORR shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 72
hours of conducting a formal assessment of a
facility for possible lease or acquisition and
within 7 days of any lease or acquisition of
real property: Provided further, That not less
than $866,000,000 of the amounts provided
under this heading shall be used for the pro-
vision of care in licensed shelters and for ex-
panding the supply of shelters for which
State licensure will be sought, of which not
less than $27,000,000 shall be available for the
purposes of adding shelter beds in State-li-
censed facilities in response to funding op-
portunity HHS–2017–ACF–ORR–ZU–1132, and
of which not less than $185,000,000 shall be
available for expansion grants to add beds in
State-licensed facilities and open new State-
licensed facilities, and for contract costs to
acquire, activate, and operate facilities that
include small- and medium-scale hard-sided
facilities for which the Secretary intends to
seek State licensure in an effort to phase out
the need for shelter beds in unlicensed facili-
ties: Provided further, That not less than
$100,000,000 of the amounts provided under
this heading shall be used for post-release
services, child advocates, and legal services:
Provided further, That the amount made
available for legal services in the preceding
proviso shall be made available for the same
purposes for which amounts were provided
for such services in fiscal year 2017: Provided
further, That not less than $8,000,000 of the
amounts provided under this heading shall
be used for the purposes of hiring additional
Federal Field Specialists and for increasing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.040 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5149
June 25, 2019
case management and case coordination
services, with the goal of more expeditiously
placing unaccompanied alien children with
sponsors and reducing the length of stay in
ORR custody: Provided further, That not less
than $1,000,000 of amounts provided under
this heading shall be used for the purposes of
hiring project officers and program monitor
staff dedicated to pursuing strategic im-
provements to the Unaccompanied Alien
Children program and for the development of
a discharge rate improvement plan which
shall be submitted to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate within 120 days of the date of
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That
of the amounts provided under this heading,
$5,000,000 shall be transferred to ‘‘Office of
the Secretary—Office of Inspector General’’
and shall remain available until expended for
oversight of activities supported with funds
appropriated under this heading: Provided
further, That none of the funds made avail-
able under this heading may be transferred
pursuant to the authority in section 205 of
division B of Public Law 115–245: Provided
further, That the amount provided under this
heading is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 301. The Secretary of Health and
Human Services (the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall
prioritize use of community-based residen-
tial care (including long-term and transi-
tional foster care and small group homes)
and shelter care other than large-scale insti-
tutional shelter facilities to house unaccom-
panied alien children in the custody of the
Department of Health and Human Services.
The Secretary shall prioritize State-licensed,
hard-sided dormitories.
SEC. 302. Funds made available in this Act
under the heading ‘‘Department of Health
and Human Services—Administration for
Children and Families—Refugee and Entrant
Assistance’’ shall remain available for obli-
gation only if the operational directives
issued by the Office of Refugee Resettlement
between December 1, 2018, and June 15, 2019,
to accelerate the identification and approval
of sponsors, remain in effect.
SEC. 303. Funds made available in this Act
under the heading ‘‘Department of Health
and Human Services—Administration for
Children and Families—Refugee and Entrant
Assistance’’ shall be subject to the authori-
ties and conditions of section 224 of division
A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2019 (Public Law 116–6).
SEC. 304. None of the funds made available
in this Act under the heading ‘‘Department
of Health and Human Services—Administra-
tion for Children and Families—Refugee and
Entrant Assistance’’ may be obligated to a
grantee or contractor to house unaccom-
panied alien children (as such term is defined
in section 462(g)(2) of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2))) in any facility
that is not State-licensed for the care of un-
accompanied alien children, except in the
case that the Secretary of Health and
Human Services (the ‘‘Secretary’’) deter-
mines that housing unaccompanied alien
children in such a facility is necessary on a
temporary basis due to an influx of such
children or an emergency: Provided, That—
(1) the terms of the grant or contract for
the operations of any such facility that re-
mains in operation for more than six con-
secutive months shall require compliance
with—
(A) the same requirements as licensed
placements, as listed in Exhibit 1 of the Flo-
res Settlement Agreement, regardless of the
status of the underlying settlement agree-
ment;
(B) staffing ratios of 1 on-duty Youth Care
Worker for every 8 children or youth during
waking hours, 1 on-duty Youth Care Worker
for every 16 children or youth during sleep-
ing hours, and clinician ratios to children
(including mental health providers) as re-
quired in grantee cooperative agreements;
and
(C) access provided to legal services;
(2) the Secretary may grant a 60-day waiv-
er for a contractor’s or grantee’s non-compli-
ance with paragraph (1) if the Secretary cer-
tifies and provides a report to Congress on
the contractor’s or grantee’s good-faith ef-
forts and progress towards compliance and
the report specifies each requirement ref-
erenced n paragraph (1) that is being waived
for 60 days;
(3) the Secretary shall not waive require-
ments for grantees or contractors to provide
or arrange for the following services——
(A) proper physical care and maintenance,
including suitable living accommodations,
food, appropriate clothing, and personal
grooming items;
(B) a complete medical examiation (includ-
ing screening for infectious disease) within
48 hours of admission, unless the minor was
recently examined at another facility;
(C) appropriate routine medical and dental
care;
(D) at least one individual counseling ses-
sion per week conducted by trained social
work staff with the specific objectives of re-
viewing a minor’s progress, establishing new
short term objectives, and addressing both
the developmental an crisis-related needs of
each minor;
(E) educational services appropriate to the
minor’s level of development, and commu-
nication skills in a structured classroom set-
ting, Monday through Friday, which con-
centrates primarily on the development of
basic academic competencies and second-
arily on English Language Training;
(F) activities according to a leisure time
plan which shall include daily outoor activ-
ity, weather permitting, at least one hour
per day of structured leisure time activities
(this should not include time spent
wathching television). Activities should be
increased to three hours on days when school
is not in session;
(G) wheneve possible, access to religious
services of the minor’s choice;
(H) visitation and contact with family
members (regardless of t heir immigration
status) which is structured to encourage
such visitation. The staff shall respect the
minor’s privacy while reasonably preventing
the unauthorized release of the minor;
(I) family reunification services designed
to identify relatives in the United States as
well as in foreign countries and assistance in
obtaining legal guardianship when necessary
for the release of the minor; and
(J) legal services information regarding
the availability of free legal assistance, the
right to be represented by counsel at no ex-
pense to the government, the right to a de-
portation or xclusion hearing before an im-
migration judge, the right t apply for polit-
ical asylum or to request voluntary depar-
ture in lieu of deportation;
(4) if the Secretary determines that a con-
tractor or grantee is not in compliance with
any of the requirements set forth in para-
graph (3), the Secretary shall not permit
such contractor or grantee to continue to
provide services beyond a reasonable period,
not to exceed 60 days, need to award a con-
tract or grant to anew service provider, and
the incumbent contractor or grantee shall be
be eligible to compete for the new contract
or grant;
(5) for any such unlicensed facility in oper-
ation for more than three consecutive
months, ORR shall conduct a minimum of
one comprehensive monitoring visit during
the first three months of operation, with
quarterly monitoring visits thereafter;
(6) not later than 60 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, ORR shall brief the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate outlining
the requirements of ORR for influx facilities;
and
(9) the amounts provided by this section
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 305. In addition to the existing Con-
gressional notification requirements for for-
mal site assessments of potential influx fa-
cilities, the Secretary shall notify the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate at least 15
days before operationalizing an unlicensed
facility, and shall (1) specify whether the fa-
cility is hard-sided or soft-sided, and (2) pro-
vide analysis that indicates that, in the ab-
sence of the influx facility, the likely out-
come is that unaccompanied alien children
will remain in the custody of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for longer than
72 hours or that unaccompanied alien chil-
dren will be otherwise placed in danger.
Within 60 days of bringing such a facility on-
line, and monthly thereafter, the Secretary
shall provide to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a report detailing the total
number of children in care at the facility,
the average length of stay and average
length of care of children at the facility, and,
for any child that has been at the facility for
more than 60 days, their length of stay and
reason for delay in release.
SEC. 306. (a) The Secretary shall ensure
that, when feasible, no unaccompanied alien
child is at an unlicensed facility if the child
is not expected to be placed with a sponsor
within 30 days.
(b) The Secretary shall ensure that no un-
accompanied alien child is at an unlicensed
facility if the child—
(1) is under the age of 13;
(2) does not speak English or Spanish as
his or her preferred language;
(3) has known special needs, behavioral
health issues, or medical issues that would
be better served at an alternative facility;
(4) is a pregnant or parenting teen; or
(5) would have a diminution of legal serv-
ices as a result of the transfer to such an un-
licensed facility.
(c) ORR shall notify a child’s attorney of
record in advance of any transfer, where ap-
plicable.
SEC. 307. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to prevent a United
States Senator or Member of the House of
Representatives from entering, for the pur-
pose of conducting oversight, any facility in
the United States used for the purpose of
maintaining custody of, or otherwise hous-
ing, unaccompanied alien children (as de-
fined in section 462(g)(2) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2))): Pro-
vided, That nothing in this section shall be
construed to require such a Senator or Mem-
ber to provide prior notice of the intent to
enter such a facility for such purpose.
SEC. 308. Not later than 14 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, and monthly
thereafter, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall submit to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate, and make pub-
licly available online, a report with respect
to children who were separated from their
parents or legal guardians by the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security (DHS) (regard-
less of whether or not such separation was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.040 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5150 June 25, 2019
pursuant to an option selected by the chil-
dren, parents, or guardians), subsequently
classified as unaccompanied alien children,
and transferred to the care and custody of
ORR during the previous month. Each report
shall contain the following information:
(1) The number and ages of children so sep-
arated subsequent to apprehension at or be-
tween ports of entry, to be reported by sector
where separation occurred.
(2) The documented cause of separation, as
reported by DHS when each child was re-
ferred.
SEC. 309. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Health and Human Services shall submit
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
detailed spend plan of anticipated uses of
funds made available in this account, includ-
ing the following: a list of existing grants
and contracts for both permanent and influx
facilities, including their costs, capacity,
and timelines; costs for expanding capacity
through the use of community-based residen-
tial care placements (including long-term
and transitional foster care and small group
homes) through new or modified grants and
contracts; current and planned efforts to ex-
pand small-scale shelters and available fos-
ter care placements, including collaboration
with state child welfare providers; influx fa-
cilities being assessed for possible use; costs
and services to be provided for legal services,
child advocates, and post release services;
program administration; and the average
number of weekly referrals and discharge
rate assumed in the spend plan: Provided,
That such plan shall be updated to reflect
changes and expenditures and submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate
every 60 days until all funds are expended or
expire.
SEC. 310. The Office of Refugee Resettle-
ment shall ensure that its grantees are
aware of current law regarding the use of in-
formation collected as part of the sponsor
vetting process.
SEC. 311. The Secretary is directed to re-
port the death of any unaccompanied alien
child in Office of Refugee Resettlement
(ORR) custody or in the custody of any
grantee on behalf of ORR within 24 hours, in-
cluding relevant details regarding the cir-
cumstances of the fatality, to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate.
SEC. 312. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds made available in this Act
under the heading ‘‘Department of Health
and Human Services—Administration for
Children and Families—Refugee and Entrant
Assistance’’ shall only be used for the pur-
poses specifically described under that head-
ing.
SEC. 313. (a) The Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall ensure that no unac-
companied alien child (as defined in section
462(g)(2) of the Homeland Security Act of
2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2))) spends more than 90
days, in aggregate, at an unlicensed facility.
(b) Not later than 45 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall
ensure transfer to a State-licenses facility
for any unaccompanied alien child who has
been at an unlicenses facility for longer than
90 days.
(c) Subsetions (a) and (b) shall not apply to
an unaccompanie alien child when the Sec-
retary determines that a potential sponsor
had been identified and the unaccompanied
alien child is expected to be placed with the
sponsor within 30 days.
(d) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and
(b), if the Secretary determines there is in-
sufficient space available at State-licensed
facilities to transfer an unaccompanied alien
child who has been at an unlicensed facility
for longer than 90 days, the Secretary shall
submit a written justification to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives an the Senate, and shall
sumit a s ummary every two weeks,
disaggregated by influx facility, on the num-
ber of unaccompanied alien children at each
influx facility longer than 90 days, with a
summary of both the status of placement
and the transfer efforts for all children who
has been in care for longer than 90 days.
TITLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 401. (a) FISCAL YEAR 2017.—Funds
made available by the Department of State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public
Law 115–31) that were initially obligated for
assistance for El Salvador, Guatemala, and
Honduras may not be reprogrammed after
the date of enactment of this Act for assist-
ance for a country other than for which such
funds were initially obligated: Provided, That
if the Secretary of State suspends assistance
for the central government of El Salvador,
Guatemala, or Honduras pursuant to section
7045(a)(5) of such Act, not less than 75 per-
cent of the funds for such central govern-
ment shall be reprogrammed for assistance
through nongovernmental organizations or
local government entities in such country:
Provided further, That the balance of such
funds shall only be reprogrammed for assist-
ance for countries in the Western Hemi-
sphere.
(b) FISCAL YEAR 2018.—Section 7045(a) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2018 (division K of Public Law 115–
141) is amended by striking paragraph (4)(D)
and inserting in lieu of paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing paragraph:
‘‘(1) FUNDING.—Subject to the requirements
of this subsection, of the funds appropriated
under titles III and IV of this Act, not less
than $615,000,000 shall be made available for
assistance for countries in Central America,
of which not less than $452,000,000 shall be for
assistance for El Salvador, Guatemala, and
Honduras to implement the United States
Strategy for Engagement in Central America
(the Strategy): Provided, That such amounts
shall be made available notwithstanding any
provision of law permitting deviations below
such amounts: Provided further, That if the
Secretary of State cannot make the certifi-
cations under paragraph (3), or makes a de-
termination under paragraph (4)(A) or (4)(C)
that the central government of El Salvador,
Guatemala, or Honduras is not meeting the
requirements of this subsection, not less
than 75 percent of the funds for such central
government shall be reprogrammed for as-
sistance through nongovernmental organiza-
tions or local government entities in such
country: Provided further, That the balance
of such funds shall only be reprogrammed for
assistance for countries in the Western
Hemisphere.’’.
(c) FISCAL YEAR 2019.—Section 7045(a) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2019 (division F of Public Law 116–
6) is amended by striking paragraph (2)(C)
and inserting at the end, between paragraph
(4)(B) and subsection (b), the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(5) FUNDING.—Subject to the requirements
of this subsection, of the funds appropriated
under titles III and IV of this Act, not less
than $540,850,000 shall be made available for
assistance for countries in Central America,
of which not less than $452,000,000 shall be
made available for assistance for El Sal-
vador, Guatemala, and Honduras to imple-
ment the United States Strategy for Engage-
ment in Central America: Provided, That
such amounts shall be made available not-
withstanding any provision of law permit-
ting deviations below such amounts: Provided
further, That if the Secretary of State cannot
make the certification under paragraph (1),
or makes a determination under paragraph
(2) that the central government of El Sal-
vador, Guatemala, or Honduras is not meet-
ing the requirements of this subsection, not
less than 75 percent of the funds for such
central government shall be reprogrammed
for assistance through nongovernmental or-
ganizations or local government entities in
such country: Provided further, That the bal-
ance of such funds shall only be repro-
grammed for assistance for countries in the
Western Hemisphere.’’.
SEC. 402. Each amount appropriated or
made available by this Act is in addition to
amounts otherwise appropriated for the fis-
cal year involved.
SEC. 403. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 404. Unless otherwise provided for by
this Act, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this Act to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 405. Each amount designated in this
Act by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
SEC. 406. Any amount appropriated by this
Act, designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
and subsequently so designated by the Presi-
dent, and transferred pursuant to transfer
authorities provided by this Act shall retain
such designation.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Emergency
Supplemental Appropriations for Humani-
tarian Assistance and Security at the South-
ern Border Act, 2019’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Appropria-
tions.
The gentlewoman from New York
(Mrs. LOWEY) and the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. GRANGER) each will
control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on H.R. 3401.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I am
very pleased to yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from California (Ms.
PELOSI), the Speaker of the House.
Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.040 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5151
June 25, 2019
Madam Speaker, let me first salute
Chairwoman NITA LOWEY, Congress-
woman LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD, Con-
gresswoman ROSA DELAURO, and all of
the appropriators—also the ranking
member—for their relentless good-faith
work on a strong bill that protects vul-
nerable children, keeps America safe,
and honors our values.
Madam Speaker, when people ask
me, what are the three most important
issues facing the Congress? I always
say the same thing: children, children,
children.
Today, we have the opportunity to
help the children. We are ensuring that
children have food, clothing, sanitary
items, shelter, and medical care. We
are providing access to legal assist-
ance. And we are protecting families
because families belong together.
Right now, children need their fami-
lies. Right now, little children are en-
during trauma and terror. Many are
living in squalor at Border Patrol sta-
tions. Some are sleeping on the cold
ground without warm blankets or hot
meals. Kids as young as 7 and 8 years
old are watching over infants because
there is no one else there to care for
them.
As one little girl caring for two in-
fants said, I need comfort, too. I am
bigger than they are, but I am a child,
too.
Today, we found out that the admin-
istration is sending children back to a
station in Clint, Texas, from where,
just days earlier, those children had
been removed after enduring weeks
without a shower or a change of
clothes. When visiting these children,
one lawyer reported, the children are
locked in their cells. They said they
can’t bring themselves to play because
they are trying to stay alive in there.
And yet, last week, the Trump De-
partment of Justice argued in court
that the government should not have
to provide children in custody with
soap, toothbrushes, or beds.
This situation is child abuse. It is an
atrocity that violates every value we
have, not only as Americans, but as
moral beings. Today, sadly, our values
are being undermined by the Presi-
dent’s failed policies which has intensi-
fied the situation of heartbreak and
horror on the border, which challenges
the conscience of America.
Today, our legislation is a vote
against the cruel attitude toward chil-
dren of this administration. This bill
does not fund the administration’s
failed mass detention policy. Instead,
it funds effective, humane alternatives
to detention that have a proven record
of success. This legislation secures lim-
its on how the money is spent and how
the administration treats children.
And it creates strong oversight by Con-
gress so that we can protect children
and ensure this crisis never occurs
again.
This legislation also helps address
the root causes of this situation. It re-
verses the administration’s senseless
decision to block the humanitarian
funding that Congress had already ap-
propriated for the Northern Triangle
countries, where many of these refu-
gees are coming from. And it ensures
that the funding is used by these coun-
tries to curb migration, improve border
security, and prevent human smug-
gling and drug trafficking, in addition
to combating corruption, reducing pov-
erty, and promoting growth. That is
what the agenda is about.
A recent trip by some of our col-
leagues, led by Chairman ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman JERRY NADLER, and other
Members to the Northern Triangle, saw
the effective use of those funds. And
while they were there, exercising over-
sight and seeing the effective use of
those funds, at that very moment, the
President reversed the policy.
We are launching a $200 million pilot
initiative to improve the Customs and
Border Protection’s processing system,
based on a proposal from the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees.
The evangelical community, Madam
Speaker, a while back when there was
another Muslim ban, we were not in
the majority, but we did have a hearing
where many people came. National se-
curity experts, diplomats, everyone
came. People of faith-based organiza-
tions came to object to the President’s
Muslim ban. And, at that time, rep-
resentatives of the evangelical commu-
nity of America—this is not an indi-
vidual, but a representative of the
evangelicals in America—stated that
America’s refugee resettlement pro-
gram is the crown jewel of America’s
humanitarianism.
We must protect and strengthen this
pillar of our immigration system and
our democracy. Families belong to-
gether. And as we face the challenges
presented by the President’s policy, we
must help immigrants know their
rights. Immigrants must know their
rights. Families belong together.
Every Member of this body has a sa-
cred moral obligation to protect the
human rights and the lives of vulner-
able families, no matter who they are
and from where they came. They all
are God’s children. They have a spark
of divinity within them that we must
respect. And we must remember our
own spark of divinity as we view these
children and our responsibilities to
them.
Madam Speaker, I urge a strong, bi-
partisan vote for the children, the chil-
dren, the children.
b 1945
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
House Democrats’ humanitarian sup-
plemental to care for the increased
number of migrants crossing the south-
ern border.
In a matter of days, the Department
of Health and Human Services and De-
partment of Homeland Security will
run out of money to care for children
and families at the border who are al-
ready held in deplorable, chaotic condi-
tions, often without needed medical
care or even soap and toothbrushes.
Children go without showers or clean
clothes for weeks, and 7- and 8-year-
olds care for infants they don’t know,
while toddlers go without diapers. This
is heartbreaking and, in the richest
country on Earth, unacceptable.
This bill totals $4.5 billion for basic
human needs and better care. It in-
cludes $200 million for an integrated,
multiagency processing center pilot
program with nonprofits, as well as $60
million to assist local entities and non
profits serving the influx of migrants.
The President’s cruel immigration
policies that tear apart families and
terrorize communities demand the
stringent safeguards in this bill to en-
sure these funds are used for humani-
tarian needs only—not for immigration
raids, not for detention beds, not for a
border wall.
This bill would better protect mi-
grants’ rights and dignity with strong-
er requirements for care of unaccom-
panied children, including standards
for medical care and medical emer-
gencies; nutrition, hygiene, and facili-
ties; and personnel training.
Strict conditions on influx shelters
that house children would mandate
compliance with requirements in the
Flores settlement. Sponsors and poten-
tial sponsors would be safeguarded
from DHS immigration enforcement
based on information collected by HHS
during the sponsor vetting process.
Madam Speaker, we cannot be
complicit in the crisis and suffering at
the border. I urge support for this leg-
islation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Almost 2 months ago, the adminis-
tration sounded the alarm about the
crisis at our southwest border and told
the Congress additional funds were
badly needed. Now, 2 months later, we
are here. We have this border supple-
mental appropriations bill, H.R. 3401,
that falls terribly short and will only
further delay addressing the problem.
I oppose this bill in its current form.
Hundreds of thousands of people have
arrived at the border this year. Some
are coming through points of entry,
and many are crossing through the
desert or the Rio Grande.
Men and women across agencies and
departments have been working to-
gether to try to respond to the over-
whelming surge of people coming to
the border illegally for the past 3
months, totaling over 100,000 people per
month. Last month topped that: 144,000
men, women, and children from 51
countries.
Our agents and officers, our volun-
teers, our nongovernmental organiza-
tions are dealing with nearly 20,000
people in a space designed for a frac-
tion of that. They are dealing with the
increasing summer heat, and they are
dealing with migrants with grave med-
ical conditions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.112 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5152 June 25, 2019
This is a real crisis, and we need a
bill that provides for all the agencies
that are involved in responding. It is
long overdue.
The bill before us does not provide
Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment, the Department of Defense, or
the immigration courts with the funds
they need.
In addition, the bill includes provi-
sions tying the administration’s hands,
including restrictions on foreign aid to
Central American countries and stop-
ping HHS from changing policies that
could protect unaccompanied children.
We are out of time. Some of our
agencies are spending money they
don’t have because they have must-pay
bills for contracts for food and shelter
and transportation and medical care.
I want everyone to be very aware of
what they are dealing with: People are
waiting in terrible conditions in the
desert, and summer is here; children
are sleeping on the ground and need to
be moved to shelters or homes. We need
doctors and pediatricians. We need
caregivers.
We need immigration courts to rule
in a timely manner. We should not
force those who have submitted claims
for asylum and other forms of release
to wait any longer. The more time we
spend on partisan measures, the longer
it will be before help arrives to those
who desperately need it.
We need to act now on a bipartisan
solution, and I urge my colleagues to
reject this bill. It is partisan and dan-
gerous.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Connecticut (Ms. DELAURO), the
distinguished and outstanding chair of
the Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies Sub-
committee.
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, we
face a humanitarian crisis at our
southern border, and we face a crisis of
care.
Six children have died in U.S. cus-
tody in the last 9 months. In the 10 pre-
vious years, not one child died. These
lost, scared, and vulnerable young peo-
ple are so distraught in what the
Miami Herald called ‘‘prison-like fa-
cilities’’ that they are self-harming. It
breaks our heart, and it must steel our
conviction for action tonight.
And we have been acting. In the 2020
Labor-HHS appropriations bill, we
strengthened protections for the unac-
companied children program. These in-
clude funding legal services, blocking
the administration’s memorandum of
agreement that had HHS erroneously
prioritizing immigration enforcement
over care for kids and scaring sponsors
from coming forward, and requiring the
administration to abide by the protec-
tions that are guaranteed under the
standards of care under the Flores
Agreement.
That is what we have done. This is
what we are doing now.
This emergency supplemental pro-
vides funding for the housing of chil-
dren. It implements protections for
them. It enacts mechanisms to ensure
their safe and expeditious placement
with sponsors.
We provide legal services, child advo-
cates, post-release services, additional
Federal field specialists, and case man-
agement personnel to identify poten-
tial family sponsors and to discharge
children to them as quickly as possible.
The emergency supplemental pro-
vides the full amount of $2.9 billion re-
quested by the administration—the full
amount. These funds enable the De-
partment to expand its network of
shelters to care for children.
So we do provide the funds. However,
we do not provide a blank check, be-
cause a blank check could be license to
continue the abuses that we uncovered.
All of us were shocked and outraged
last year at the administration’s inten-
tional family separation policy, adding
to the number of children that HHS
had to care for and doing so with no
plan to reunify these families. The
tragedy is some children will never be
reunited with their families, and that
is on this administration’s watch.
Along with these funds, this bill in-
cludes new and necessary protections.
They redirect HHS to its core mission,
which is to be caring for children, plac-
ing them in a safe environment with
sponsors.
This bill gives priority to small and
medium-scale State licensed shelters
wherever possible. And for the first
time ever, it requires currently exempt
influx facilities to meet the minimum
standards of care required by the Flo-
res settlement. If these grantees do not
comply, their contracts are revoked.
The bill limits the number of days
children can spend at an influx shelter.
A temporary facility should not be-
come a near-permanent way station.
The bill requires HHS to maintain the
directives that have been successfully
accelerating the placement of children.
And, finally, the bill enhances trans-
parency, provides adequate safeguards
against the misuse of funds. It pro-
hibits funds from being transferred
outside of HHS. It does not give the
Secretary discretion to decide which
Flores protections should apply to in-
flux shelters. And the bill requires HHS
to report to the Congress within 24
hours if a child dies in HHS custody.
Not one Member in this body would
volunteer his or her child or grandchild
to be detained in these facilities. Not
one of us would choose to expose our
youngsters to these conditions. So we
must not allow any children to con-
tinue to suffer, nor can we miss the op-
portunity to help.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Connecticut.
Ms. DELAURO. President Franklin
Roosevelt once said, quoting the poet,
Dante: ‘‘Divine justice weighs the sins
of the cold-blooded and the sins of the
warmhearted in different scales. Better
the occasional faults of a government
that lives in a spirit of charity than
the consistent omissions of a govern-
ment frozen in the ice of its own indif-
ference.’’
We are not indifferent. We should not
be indifferent tonight. Do not let us be-
come frozen.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle, let us pass this emergency
supplemental bill because the lives of
children are at stake, and we should
not play fast and loose with those lives
when we have the power to do some-
thing, to make a difference, and to pro-
tect these children and make sure they
get to a safe haven and a safe landing.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. FLEISCHMANN).
Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Madam Speak-
er, I thank the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. GRANGER), the ranking
member.
As the ranking member of the Home-
land Security Subcommittee on Appro-
priations, I know all too well the chal-
lenges we are facing on the border. I
have the utmost respect for Chair-
woman ROYBAL-ALLARD and her work
to address these issues and work with
all the members of the subcommittee.
At the time we crafted the fiscal year
2019 regular appropriations bill, we
could not have predicted the sheer
mass of people pouring across the bor-
der this spring and summer. But this
fiscal year, Customs and Border Patrol
has already encountered almost 700,000
people. That is double the amount in
all the previous fiscal years, and we
still have 3 months to go.
Further, we are not talking about
separating children. We are talking
about children coming to this country
without parents who can care for them.
We can’t just let kids wander the
streets. We need to ensure that HHS
has the space and the capacity to find
sponsors or suitable homes for these
kids.
DHS cannot wait another month for
funds, and DHS definitely cannot wait
on Health and Human Services to re-
ceive more funds. We need a complete
border supplemental bill providing re-
lief and resources for all agencies
working at the border and within the
country to work through the number of
migrants coming across the southern
border. That includes Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, and that also
includes the Department of Defense.
Further, we need a supplemental bill
that does not throw up roadblocks to
implementing the aid we are trying to
deliver. Madam Speaker, I urge the
House to, instead, take up a more bi-
partisan bill that would also pass the
Senate and get signed by the President
on Friday.
Time is of the essence. We need to
work with the Senate and the Presi-
dent to get a bill enacted. Madam
Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this
bill. Let’s take up a bill that could de-
liver the humanitarian aid by the end
of this week.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.113 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5153
June 25, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD),
the outstanding chairwoman of the
Homeland Security Subcommittee.
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam
Speaker, I rise in strong support of
H.R. 3401.
We have all seen the tragic pictures
of immigrants held in extremely over-
crowded CBP facilities never designed
to hold families and tender-aged chil-
dren. I and many colleagues have been
to the border and witnessed firsthand
the horrific, indisputably untenable
and intolerable conditions.
This bill addresses this humanitarian
crisis and sets forth strong oversight
provisions and requirements to ensure
the basic human care of migrants in
custody, especially the children.
Funding for the Department of
Homeland Security totals nearly $1.5
billion, $150 million above the Senate
committee bill.
b 2000
This crucial funding will directly ad-
dress the humanitarian crisis at the
border by supporting temporary CBP
holding facilities to relieve dangerous
overcrowding and by providing medical
and transportation support, blankets,
food, water, and other consumables for
migrants.
Combined with funding in title III for
unaccompanied children, the bill also
provides resources needed to reduce
time in CBP custody and to ensure
their facilities are safe, sanitary, and
humane.
The bill also includes $200 million for
an innovative multiagency pilot pro-
gram to better address the medical and
legal needs of families and unaccom-
panied children. It will also improve
the Department’s efficiency in migrant
processing without compromising mi-
grant legal protections.
This pilot will co-locate Customs and
Border Protection, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, Citizenship and
Immigration Services, Office of Ref-
ugee Resettlement, and nonprofit hu-
manitarian organizations into a single
facility. This will reduce overall proc-
essing time, provide consistent medical
assessments and treatment, and offer
legal orientation much earlier. Non-
profit organizations will provide as-
sessments of migrants’ needs and vul-
nerabilities and help families transi-
tion to local shelters or alternatives to
detention.
The bill also includes $60 million to
help nonprofits and local jurisdictions
continue their efforts to provide assist-
ance to migrants released from DHS
custody.
The Office of Refugee Resettlement
is nearly out of money. Without addi-
tional resources for sheltering capac-
ity, children will continue to be held
for weeks or longer in ill-equipped CBP
holding facilities never intended to
hold children for more than a few
hours.
Let me be clear: Without passage of
this bill, the only alternative is the
Senate bill, which has insufficient
oversight provisions and leaves the
door open for further abusive behavior
by the administration. H.R. 3401 takes
a constructive, balanced approach with
the right mix of funding and oversight.
Madam Speaker, Congress simply
cannot adjourn without providing the
funding needed to address the humani-
tarian crisis and trauma of migrants
and their children at the border. The
only way to ensure the inclusion of
strong oversight, compliance require-
ments, and priorities in the emergency
supplemental package is to pass H.R.
3401.
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’
on this supplemental.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. RUTHERFORD).
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker,
I thank the ranking member for yield-
ing.
Madam Speaker, I am truly saddened
this evening to rise in opposition to
what should be a humanitarian assist-
ance bill for those who are suffering at
our southern border.
For over 50 days, my Republican col-
leagues have been begging the House
majority, begging them to deliver
badly needed relief to our agencies on
the southern border that are over-
whelmed by a record number of mi-
grants.
For over 50 days, the majority has re-
mained silent while our agencies ran
out of resources and migrant children
suffered from a lack of sufficient re-
sources to properly care for them.
The Speaker talked about keeping
America safe. Hardly. She said that
this is a vote for the children, the chil-
dren, the children. At the same time,
she is asking us to vote for a bill that
withholds resources from the very
agencies that are responsible for the
care, custody, and control of those who
are suffering at the border.
I am really glad, Madam Speaker,
that, finally, my colleagues across the
aisle have recognized this is a crisis at
the southern border. It is not a manu-
factured crisis, as they claimed it was
for over 2 months. But this bill does
nothing to solve that crisis.
It is nothing more than a political
messaging bill for a large-scale
disinformation campaign about that
humanitarian crisis, which my col-
leagues across the aisle, again, once
called a manufactured crisis.
Specifically, this bill restricts DHS
from sending additional employees to
the southern border. Congress is now
going to tell DHS how to deploy their
staffing. That is amazing.
It withholds overtime funds for ex-
hausted officers. It provides money to
inspect DHS but provides nothing—
can’t use a dime—to investigate human
trafficking. When we know that these
children who are suffering are being
trafficked across that southern border,
there is not a dime to go after those
traffickers.
ICE has asked for 54,000 beds to han-
dle this surge and alleviate the over-
crowding, but the majority only gives
them, in the previous underlying bill in
appropriations, 34,000 beds, not the
54,000 that they asked for, 34,000 with
another 7,000 contingent.
The Speaker and the majority want
to listen to the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, but they
do not want to listen to our own DHS
agencies that are on that border and
responsible for care, custody, and con-
trol of those individuals.
Finally, there is no funding for extra
judges to help process more than
100,000 migrants per month.
What we need is proper assistance,
not political messaging. I spent my en-
tire adult career in law enforcement,
and I know that giving money with
burdensome strings is not leadership.
It is not the way to get things done. We
have to allow the folks on the ground
the flexibility to do their jobs, or we
are simply wasting taxpayers’ hard-
earned money and, more importantly,
wasting precious time. We have wasted
2 months as the situation at the south-
ern border has only worsened.
I can assure my colleagues that the
agents on the ground have a better idea
of what is needed to be done than
Washington bureaucrats or the U.N.
commissioner. Unfortunately, there
are many in this legislative body who
despise our President so much that
they are willing to suffocate our agen-
cies with inadequate funding and regu-
lations that endanger the safety of
both migrants and our surrounding
communities. Yet, they are not just
poking the President in the eye.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman from Florida.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. With this bill,
they are impairing our DHS men and
women on the ground who are trying
desperately to manage this humani-
tarian crisis at the border. They are
poking them in the eye, also.
ICE, DHS, and HHS employees pro-
vide care for every single man, woman,
and child who crosses into our country.
They deserve our support. What they
need are the resources to do their job
effectively, and this bill does not pro-
vide that.
It is frustrating to listen to.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I am
very pleased to yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from New York (Mr.
SERRANO), the distinguished chairman
of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies Subcommittee.
Mr. SERRANO. Madam Speaker, we
are now in the midst of a humanitarian
crisis at the border created by the poli-
cies of the Trump administration.
Like many of my colleagues, I have
been shocked by the conditions at our
border stations and the lack of basic
services and necessities available to
migrant families and especially to mi-
nors.
This crisis has been aggravated by
the anti-immigration policies of this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.115 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5154 June 25, 2019
President. He has once against created
a disaster that undermines our Na-
tion’s standing in the world and our
basic American values.
No one should doubt why we are here
today, but the question for me is not
who is at fault but, rather, how do we
as a body, how do we as a party, re-
spond? We have a responsibility to
these children now. We have an obliga-
tion to these families now. They can-
not wait.
That is what this bill does. It pro-
vides the resources to alleviate the cri-
sis and ensures that we have the money
to provide migrants, especially minors,
with the shelter, food, medicine, and
legal services that they need.
The funding in this bill is not a blank
check, however. The legislation in-
cludes numerous conditions to ensure
this money is used for its intended pur-
poses, to make sure that individuals
are receiving the care and services they
need, and to prevent the administra-
tion from creating further chaos and
harm.
This bill takes the right steps to ad-
dress the crisis and to stop what the
administration is doing. I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill. If we cry
out against the crisis, then we have a
responsibility to provide the funds to
alleviate it. The bill does just that, and
I urge my colleagues’ support.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. MCCARTHY).
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, it has been 56 days
since the Trump administration asked
for emergency funding to address the
humanitarian crisis at our southern
border, 56 days.
The New York Times had two edi-
torials—not one, but two. Mexico is
now sending 15,000 troops to the south-
ern border. But Democrats, Madam
Speaker, have rejected a bill to provide
the aid that is needed not once, not
twice, not even 10 times, but 18 times.
Madam Speaker, I was shocked when
I actually heard from the other side of
the aisle that someone said there is a
crisis. I guess after 56 days, they read
some of those editorials. Now, after
weeks of doing nothing and denying
that a crisis exists, they are offering
legislation that is misguided and is
purely political.
They are, once again, taking what
should be a bipartisan issue and insert-
ing partisan poison pills. I would say I
would be shocked, but this isn’t the
only issue they have done that on this
year.
Madam Speaker, they took a bill
that had a 100 percent vote from Re-
publicans and Democrats dealing with
prescription drugs, and before it got
through the Speaker’s Office, Madam
Speaker, it became political, a poison
pill.
They took a bill that was in Ways
and Means that got every Republican
and every Democrat to vote for it, but,
again, before it came to the floor, an-
other poison pill.
I guess we might have to get used to
this, but the American public should
not.
Madam Speaker, that isn’t how it is
being used on the other side of this
building. In the Senate, they actually
took up this issue. They passed it out
of committee 30–1.
I know my colleagues might be
shocked because I said that went
through committee. I know my col-
leagues might be shocked because I
said it was bipartisan. I know my col-
leagues might be shocked because they
actually let the Senators read the bill.
Madam Speaker, when we were on
this floor being sworn in, there were a
lot of promises made, and a lot of
promises have been broken.
There was a rule change, 72 hours. It
actually marked the number of hours.
b 2015
Last night, I watched the Rules Com-
mittee. They were going to come be-
fore the Rules Committee with a bill
that we did not see in committee.
But do you know what? They
couldn’t get the votes. So we had to
say no to the Rules Committee.
They will come back at 10. So I ea-
gerly waited at 10. No, we could not
come back.
It is going to be at 11. I eagerly wait-
ed for 11. It did not happen.
But, luckily, politically, they got in
the back of the room and they were
able to buy off some more, Madam
Speaker, in a political nature and rush
something to the floor.
I wondered if they were going to keep
that rule that they championed so hard
about 72 hours. Well, I don’t know,
maybe 5 equals 72. I am not sure what
math they keep nowadays.
But let’s talk about how they make
this problem even worse, because I am
not sure anybody has read the bill. I
am not sure even if those on the other
side know what is in it.
Now, here is how it is worse. Depart-
ments of Homeland Security and
Health and Human Services cannot
share information about the sponsors
of children.
Think about that for one moment.
They are making sure two departments
cannot share information within their
own government.
Now, this is necessary to ensure that
children are not placed with human
traffickers or with predators. Maybe if
they had a little time and maybe if
they didn’t care about politics, they
would have allowed a little sharing of
information for the children.
Organizations like Immigration and
Customs Enforcement and the Depart-
ment of Justice are underfunded. Re-
quests for pay and overtime costs for
Border Patrol agents are denied. Think
about that.
In the last month, 144,000 people were
apprehended coming across the border
illegally. These are unbelievable num-
bers that we have not seen in decades.
So what do the Democrats rush?
Deny overtime and deny the ability for
those who are serving us the ability to
work.
Immigration judges do not get the re-
sources they needed for additional staff
or courtroom space or equipment.
America is a country that believes in
the rule of law, but I guess on this floor
it is not the case. The majority wants
to deny it.
Now, I wonder that maybe, Madam
Speaker, on the other side they say:
Well, it is just a rush to judgment; it is
such a big bill, I didn’t get to read it.
But do you know what? Earlier
today, everyone in this Chamber had
the ability to vote for more funding for
judges just to deal with this crisis, be-
cause I have heard, Madam Speaker, on
the other side of the aisle, they actu-
ally now use the word ‘‘crisis.’’
It only took 56 days, but, lo and be-
hold, when they had that moment not
to be confused, not to have a big bill
but only that subject, every single
Democrat on the other side of the aisle,
except seven, said ‘‘no.’’ So the major-
ity made sure they put in this political
bill as well.
Deny overtime during a crisis, be-
cause you said it was a crisis, but make
sure nobody can work. You have a cri-
sis, but make sure, Madam Speaker,
that we can’t have the judges down
there, because somehow, I guess,
maybe you don’t believe in the rule of
law; and additional funding to inves-
tigate human traffickers who you
know are smuggling these children
across the border is not included.
Maybe, Madam Speaker, that is why
you want to rush this bill to the floor.
Maybe that is why you don’t want to
give people an opportunity to read it.
How will you answer that? How will
you answer that additional funding to
investigate human traffickers who are
smuggling children you do not want to
include, Madam Speaker?
Did you read the editorials? Is it
wrong to prevent the administration
from improving the welfare of unac-
companied children, as this bill will
do?
Democrats are far more interested in
appearing to help children than in ac-
tually helping them. The pace and vol-
ume at which children have crossed our
border over the last year have com-
pletely overwhelmed our existing re-
sources.
Madam Speaker, you are making
sure that nobody could work overtime
during this. In the first half of 2019,
more than 56,000 unaccompanied chil-
dren were apprehended by Customs and
Border Protection. That is a 74 percent
increase from last year and higher than
the yearly totals for the last 5.
Luckily, someone finally realized
that is a crisis—but make sure there is
no money to deal with it. Health and
Human Services shelters are full and
out of money. They cannot care for the
children if Congress does not pass solu-
tions.
Now, HHS Secretary Alex Azar sent
us a very clear message. Madam Speak-
er, this is what he said: ‘‘I can’t put a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.117 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5155
June 25, 2019
kid in a bed that does not exist and I
cannot make a bed that Congress
doesn’t fund.
Madam Speaker, to think that you
would knowingly pass something that
causes this problem.
Madam Speaker, Democrats are
proud that their bill, unlike the Sen-
ate, does not help our overstretched
law enforcement officers. That is
shameful to take pride in making sure
they do not get the help.
Border Patrol agents now spend half
of their time processing claims and
caring for families in custody, includ-
ing making trips to hospitals and clin-
ics. They are going beyond the call of
duty every day and deserve our sup-
port, whether you like them or not. If
the children who come across our
southern border are to be properly
cared for, Madam Speaker, Democrats’
distrust of our national law enforce-
ment officers must stop.
Madam Speaker, it has been 56 days,
but all Democrats threw together is a
sham bill more than 3 hours ago. It
does not adequately fund what needed
to be funded and would only make the
crisis worse. Democrats are holding an-
other vote late in the night on legisla-
tion that has no chance of becoming
law.
Madam Speaker, we are better than
this.
Madam Speaker, it is not very far if
you walk out these doors; you look
down that hall; you will see the other
Chamber.
Do you know what happened in the
other Chamber? They worked a bill
through committee. They worked a bi-
partisan bill through committee. They
didn’t run it to the floor in 3 hours.
They didn’t tell the Rules Committee
to be ready and wait and wait and wait
and then quickly after, they cut a deal,
on one side. They took something that
is critical, something that is serious,
and they acted that way.
History will write about what hap-
pens on this floor. Madam Speaker, you
may get emotional; you may be proud
of your actions; but the question will
be: Will history be kind to you? The
question will be: When you voted that
day, when you were sworn in, did you
really mean 72 hours?
Madam Speaker, when you stand on
the floor and you speak of a crisis and
you speak of caring for children, why
would you not fund to make sure peo-
ple are not trafficking them?
Madam Speaker, when you spoke
about there was a crisis on the border,
why would you not fund the men and
women who work for our government?
Why would you try to deny them over-
time?
Madam Speaker, I know the Fourth
of July is soon, and I know Members
want to get out of here, but America is
more than a country. America is an
idea, an idea of self-governance, an
idea that the rule of law matters.
This is not one of our finest mo-
ments. This is not one that I am proud
of. What is so shameful, Madam Speak-
er, is, just a few yards away, they are
showing us an example.
Are you rushing because you are
afraid the Senate is going to send us
something that is bipartisan? Are you
rushing because you are afraid the Sen-
ate will actually make law?
Madam Speaker, there are a lot of
things we could play political games
with, but I never thought children
would be the one you wanted to use.
We are better than this.
There is a moment in time where you
should stand up to your own leader-
ship. There is a moment in time that
you should stand up for this country.
There is a moment in time, Madam
Speaker, and this is it.
Madam Speaker, you don’t have to
follow and be rushed. You can say: No,
I watched what the Senate has done. I
watched people with my own philo-
sophical belief who belong to my own
party work together with the other
side and actually come with a bill that
could become law. It is not perfect. It
is not what I would agree with 100 per-
cent. But do you know what? I under-
stand our government is designed to
find compromise.
I don’t know what compromise is in
this. I don’t know who ever worked
with another side. I don’t even know
who rushed it to the Rules Committee
just to do some manager’s amendment
because you bought off a few people.
This is not our finest moment by far,
but, Madam Speaker, there is a mo-
ment in time when individuals can
stand up, and I am hoping that the mo-
ment is tonight, that we actually stand
for what this country believes and
what we will celebrate on the Fourth of
July.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I have
great respect for the minority leader,
but I ask Mr. Minority Leader: If not
this bill, what bill can provide aid to
these children?
Where is this Senate bill, Madam
Speaker? It is being held up by a Re-
publican Senator from the same State
as the majority leader.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Will the gentle-
woman yield?
Mrs. LOWEY. Just let me finish, and
then I will be delighted to yield.
So I want to ask again: This bill is
being held up by a Republican Senator
from the same State as the majority
leader.
So, Madam Speaker, a ‘‘no’’ vote on
this bill by any Member will ensure
that children remain in absolute squal-
or. Stop hiding behind the Senate bill
that has not passed.
I yield to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding. I
appreciate that.
I have spoken to the leader on the
Senate side, and they will bring it up
tomorrow. They had passed this bill in
committee 30–1.
I ask the gentlewoman: What would
be the problem—and I know we have
only had 3 hours with this bill. Why
would we not take up the Senate bill
when it is bipartisan and the President
would sign it?
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Minority Leader, I
have to reclaim my time.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the distinguished gentleman from
Texas (Mr. CUELLAR), who is a member
of the Appropriations Committee.
Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for her leader-
ship and the rest of the appropriators
and the staff who are working very
hard to get this emergency bill on the
floor.
This bill is important. I live on the
border. I don’t just go visit the border.
I have been to the CBP processing fa-
cilities. I have been to the nonprofit
shelters for the immigrant children.
I speak with the brave and compas-
sionate men and women who are re-
sponsible for managing this humani-
tarian crisis. These men and women
are my neighbors, and we have their
back. They have expressed to me the
urgency of getting this funding to en-
able them to protect the life and the
safety of the migrants in their custody.
But we must also keep in mind the
communities that are also providing
the food, the housing, and the assist-
ance that they need, communities like
Laredo, like McAllen, Texas, like San
Antonio, and so many other commu-
nities across the southwest border. So
we must pass this bill to provide that
funding.
But there are two particular provi-
sions that I do want to mention, also.
One is the humanitarian reimburse-
ment for communities, and the other is
the one-stop processing centers that I
had requested and have been added on
this particular bill itself.
Let me talk about the humanitarian
care.
Madam Speaker, you have cities, you
have counties, you have churches, and
you have nonprofits that have really
stepped up for many years. In fact,
they started this work in 2014 when the
first wave of children started coming
up here. This bill includes $60 million
for the direct reimbursement for local
communities and nonprofits in Texas,
New Mexico, Arizona, and California.
This funding will now use a different
model. One, we set up a new pot of
money to make sure that we get that
funding. The second thing is this model
provides direct funding where the local
communities can now ask for these re-
quested moneys.
We had a different model back in
2014, and, unfortunately, you had Gov-
ernors, like my own State of Texas,
that got over $100 million and only pro-
vided $400,000 in the last 4 years, 5
years.
So this new funding will get the
money directly to them. In fact, this
funding will now be distributed
through the Emergency Food and Shel-
ter Program National Board, and they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.118 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5156 June 25, 2019
are required to distribute that money
within 30 days after this board gets this
money.
So we have to provide that assistance
to them because, again, they have to be
reimbursed for food, water, medicine,
medical supplies, temporary housing,
and transportation. So that assistance
has to be provided to the local entities.
The second provision is this one-stop
center, $200 million to make sure that
this multiagency, integrated, migra-
tion process gets this.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from Texas an ad-
ditional 30 seconds.
Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, we
have to provide this because, again, the
Border Patrol agency cannot handle
this, and, therefore, we need this par-
ticular processing center.
Again, it is a good bill. Why should
we wait for the Senate? We are the
House of Representatives, and we have
a right to pass our own bills and not
wait for the Senate.
For those reasons, I say let’s support
this bill.
b 2030
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. COLLINS).
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, yes, we have the right to pass
a bill here in the House, as the gen-
tleman just said. But we have the right
to actually pass a good bill, not a polit-
ical stunt.
Why should we do this? I remember
back in 2014—we are getting nostalgic
in this place—when the crisis began.
President Obama said there was a cri-
sis. We all agreed.
In fact, the majority stayed an extra
week because we couldn’t craft a bill.
We finally crafted that bill, and it was
a bipartisan bill that passed with both
parties voting for it. The money was
delivered because we knew that it
mattered.
It was amazing to me, just a few
weeks ago on this floor, one of my col-
leagues came across, Madam Speaker,
from Texas and said: We can’t vote for
the funding that the President has
asked for. Give us some time to work it
out and begin to work to make sure we
get a good bill.
Well, we had a 5-hour bill. Is that
time to work it out, Madam Speaker?
Was that putting it all together and
getting it right? Or was it lining up
every constituency group and saying,
‘‘Did we get a little piece of this?’’ so
we could go back home and show that
we are standing for something while, at
the same time, Madam Speaker, ignor-
ing our Border Patrol agents, ignoring
those who put their lives on the line
every day?
Here is the problem. It is amazing
that we ignore—though, I have to
admit that I have to say one thing is
good: I came to the floor tonight and
heard there is a crisis on the border.
Amazing. We have had progress. Let’s
all stand up and cheer. There is a crisis
on the border.
We have been saying it for months.
The New York Times and other media
said it. Finally, it sunk through, and
now we are saying there is a crisis on
the border.
I guess 132,000 people were appre-
hended last month—84,000 family unit
members, 11,000 unaccompanied chil-
dren, and 37,000 single adults appre-
hended. Maybe it shows the time. The
sheer volume increasing is amazing.
There are ways we can fix this. We
can give money. We can throw money
at a problem and attach so many re-
strictions to it, Madam Speaker.
The unfortunate part is that this
ain’t funny. These are kids. These are
families who are being perversely
brought here by immigration laws that
are broken. I can’t get anybody to talk
about that.
I can’t get the fact that our Flores
settlement is forcing us into situations
like those the CBP and our Border Pa-
trol agents are having to deal with be-
cause ICE doesn’t have the beds.
The majority leader pointed it out.
We can’t put people in beds that don’t
exist. We also can’t keep encouraging
them to come across the border, which
is exactly what we are doing by having
a Flores decision that they know to
just get here.
This bill will not let us look after the
safety of those who are coming across
because we can’t share information.
There is no safety. Do not vote for
this bill thinking that we are putting
safety in here because we are not, be-
cause over 3,000 simple members,
Madam Speaker, 3,000 family units
have been found to be fraudulent.
There is common knowledge that
they are borrowing, renting, and buy-
ing children. It is there. Yet, that is
what we want to do.
We won’t fix Flores. We won’t fix our
Trafficking Victims Protection Act.
We won’t work on asylum and credible
fear.
After months of claiming there were
no problems, we offer this as an excuse.
We offer this bill. It is something that
won’t fix it. It won’t become law be-
cause it is not working. We put every
bit of what we want to do into not
helping children but putting restric-
tions on those who want to help.
CBP does not want to keep these
children and these unaccompanied mi-
nors where they are. They don’t want
to keep asylum seekers from Cuba bot-
tled up because they can’t get their
asylum here because they are having to
process others. They don’t want to do
this. That is not their job.
But this body and this job, we don’t
do ours because we simply keep over-
looking the perverse incentive to come
here. We are encouraging them. In fact,
this body, 2 weeks ago, made another
incentive with a Dreamer bill that has
no hope of becoming law but sends a
clear signal to Central America and
anywhere else: Get here, and you will
be fine. Get past the border, and you
will be fine.
It is frustrating to know that a bill
that is humanitarian aid could not
even come to the floor within the last
24 hours without having to be rewritten
and rewritten and rewritten because we
didn’t have enough nonenforcement in
there, and we didn’t have enough of
other things in there that really
doesn’t make this applicable.
H.R. 3401 even imposes so many con-
ditions on the Office of Refugee Reset-
tlement to care for children that they
can’t even operate temporary influx
shelters as more and more unaccom-
panied aliens come into the country.
They put severe limits on facilities,
such as being licensed by the State, al-
though the shelters have to be in com-
pliance with Federal safety standards.
They are the only emergency situation
we have right now. But we are ignoring
that because we have to please some-
body.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman from Georgia.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I will end with this. Some
people will come down here tonight and
vote, and they are going to feel good
about themselves, Madam Speaker. But
I will tell my colleagues this, and I
have said it before from this well: What
makes them feel good does not heal
them.
Don’t pretend, Madam Speaker, or
anyone else who wants to vote for this,
that it has solved something, that it
has accomplished something until my
colleagues take the situation and ask:
Why are they coming? How do we fix
it? How do we give the men and women
what they need to fix this?
If my colleagues walk away feeling
good about themselves, it may be time
tonight, Madam Speaker, before we go
to bed, to look at ourselves in the mir-
ror and ask why.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished
gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR),
the chairwoman of the Energy and
Water Subcommittee.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I
thank our able chairwoman, NITA
LOWEY from New York, for yielding me
this time. I come to the floor to urge
my colleagues to support this emer-
gency supplemental request to address
the humanitarian cry on our southern
border.
It aims to save lives and health. All
people of conscience know it is ur-
gently needed. These funds are vital to
ensure the health and safety of these
migrant refugees and migrant children.
A record number of desperate fami-
lies and unaccompanied children have
crossed into the United States, and our
Border Patrol, Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement, and Office of Ref-
ugee Resettlement are simply over-
whelmed.
Just this week, we learned that four
toddlers being held in a Border Patrol
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.120 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5157
June 25, 2019
station in McAllen, Texas, had to be
hospitalized because of dangerous ne-
glect.
The AP reported last week that chil-
dren have been locked up in Border Pa-
trol facilities for as many as 27 days
without adequate food, water, and sani-
tation, for heaven’s sake.
This administration has failed to pro-
vide detained children with soap,
toothbrushes, toothpaste, and beds, and
it doesn’t have the resources to ade-
quately address flu and lice epidemics
in these facilities.
News reports say children are caring
for other children. Five children have
died in Customs and Border Protection
custody since late last year.
The situation is getting worse. Our
Nation needs a comprehensive and con-
tinental diplomatic solution that ac-
knowledges the economic and political
conditions pushing Central American
and Mexican communities to the brink.
The only option, in desperation, for
these people is to flee north.
We need comprehensive immigration
reform that respects all continental la-
borers and migrants. President John F.
Kennedy had a name for it. He called it
the Alliance for Progress.
Today, this Congress must meet the
immediate need to provide financial
support to end the humanitarian ne-
glect confronting these travel-weary
migrants.
This $4.5 billion emergency spending
will provide adequate support for key
priorities, including legal assistance,
food, water, medical services, support
services for unaccompanied children,
alternatives to detention, and refugee
services.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentlewoman from Ohio.
Ms. KAPTUR. Most importantly, this
spending correctly includes restric-
tions to hold this administration ac-
countable on how it spends taxpayer
dollars in a capacity that protects the
rights and dignity of desperate people
who happen to be migrants.
Madam Speaker, I thank Chair-
woman LOWEY for working so hard to
bring this bill to the floor, and I urge
all of my colleagues to support this
lifesaving supplemental.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. ROGERS).
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to
this bill.
For months, Republicans on and off
the Homeland Security Committee
have been highlighting the grave hu-
manitarian crisis at our southwest bor-
der and pleading with House Democrats
to take action.
The Democrats’ initial response was
to deny a crisis even existed. When
that failed, they began to try to blame
the President.
The truth is that they have spent the
past several months fighting amongst
themselves on a way forward. Even as
late as today, the Speaker had to inter-
vene to stop the radical left in her Cau-
cus from sinking the bill.
Meanwhile, the crisis has worsened.
Madam Speaker, in May alone, 144,000
immigrants were detained, a 622 per-
cent increase over the same month in
2017.
Innocent children are being exploited
by human smugglers.
Border Patrol stations are over-
crowded with thousands of migrants
staying in poor conditions. These are
in stations, Border Patrol processing
centers, that have a maximum capac-
ity of 4,000 people. We have 20,000 peo-
ple in these facilities.
For 8 weeks, the House Republicans
have been trying to move my legisla-
tion to provide $4.5 billion in emer-
gency aid requested by our President,
but Democrats have blocked my bill
from consideration on 18 separate occa-
sions.
Instead, they bring forward a bill
today that isn’t serious and has no
chance of becoming law. To appease
the radical left, this bill is stuffed with
poison pills.
For example, it includes nothing to
stop innocent children from being ex-
ploited by human smugglers and noth-
ing to continue DOD assistance, which
has been essential for managing the
crisis. It includes drastic restrictions
on the Secretary’s authority to surge
personnel and assets to the border and
update policies to improve conditions
for migrant children.
These poison pills will only exacer-
bate the crisis. They will ensure that
dangerous catch-and-release policies
continue unabated. Meanwhile, mi-
grant families will continue to suffer
at the hands of ruthless smugglers.
Democrats had a real opportunity to
work in a bipartisan manner to address
this humanitarian crisis. Unfortu-
nately, once again, they chose to ap-
pease the radical left and reject bipar-
tisan consensus.
Madam Speaker, I urge all Members
to vote against this bill. Then, let’s
work together to craft a bipartisan
border supplemental that can become
law.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the distinguished
gentleman from New York (Mr.
JEFFRIES), the chairman of the Demo-
cratic Caucus.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker,
there is a humanitarian crisis at the
southern border that should shock the
conscience of every single American.
These are migrant children being
subjected to cruel and unusual punish-
ment by our government. This is not
Iran. This is not North Korea. This is
not Venezuela. This is the United
States of America.
Shame on us.
There are children who are without
food. They are without medicine. They
are without water. They are without
soap. They are without diapers. They
are without toothpaste.
Shame on us.
These are not alien children. They
are God’s children. This administration
should stop using them as political
pawns for some sick, xenophobic game.
Madam Speaker, vote ‘‘yes,’’ and
let’s begin the process of ending this
humanitarian crisis now.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. HICE).
Mr. HICE of Georgia. Madam Speak-
er, we have been hearing for quite some
time Democrats saying that the Presi-
dent and Republicans have not been
coming to the table on this issue. What
nonsense.
For months, we have watched Demo-
crats absolutely deny that there is a
crisis. Actually, I have, on my desk, a
list of page after page after page of
quotes from my colleagues who are de-
nying a crisis at the border.
Not only have Republicans for nearly
40 years been ringing the alarm on this
issue, but we have been highlighting
caravan after caravan after caravan
coming to our southern border.
In May, we had 144,000 apprehended,
nearly 700,000 to date, and that number
is expected to go well over a million.
Do we have a humanitarian crisis at
the border? Yes. Do we have a border
security crisis? Yes.
But this bill does not even ade-
quately fund ICE. It does not pay over-
time for border personnel.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 15 seconds to the
gentleman from Georgia.
Mr. HICE of Georgia. Madam Speak-
er, it does not have any means to in-
vestigate human traffickers. It lacks
funding for the Department of Justice
immigration courts. It ties the hands
of the President to take action on se-
curing our borders.
Madam Speaker, it is time for Demo-
crats to come to the table. Let’s ad-
dress this issue the way it ought to be
addressed.
b 2045
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. ROY).
Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from Texas for her
leadership on this issue and dealing
with this important legislation.
Madam Speaker, I am always per-
plexed when listening to the arguments
on this topic that we are not talking
about the actual problem. So when we
are talking about the facilities that
need to have more supplies and more
dollars for support, I agree. I don’t
think anybody in this room disagrees
at all. But nothing we are going to do
today is going to actually solve the
problem.
I have got an exchange here with a
group of Border Patrol agents who
texted me to say, about this legisla-
tion: This does nothing but perpetuate
the catch-and-release magnet.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.122 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5158 June 25, 2019
While there are some good pieces to
the bill, why are we not increasing ICE
beds? Why are we providing taxpayer
funding to educate border crossers on
the asylum process?
Why do we keep providing money to
let people go that violate our immigra-
tion laws? This just provides more in-
centives for people to cross the border
illegally.
If this were to pass, why would any-
one stop crossing?
They said, this is what I refer to as
completing the human smuggling
cycle. Cartels drop off people at our
borders, UACs, family units. Border
Patrol takes them, then delivers them,
engages with the NGOs. The NGOs aid
these folks who are here, so they can
reach their family members that are in
the United States waiting for them. So
the family members in the U.S. are the
ones paying the cartels their smug-
gling fees.
And the NGOs are then reimbursed,
and the whole process, it is completing
the entire cycle.
This legislation will perpetuate the
problem because we are not actually
going to address the situation with ICE
beds. We are not going to do anything
to stop the flow, and we are going to
empower the cartels who have oper-
ational control of our border, full oper-
ational control of our border.
If you talk to anybody on the border
who knows what is actually going on—
we should reject this legislation in
favor of legislation that will actually
solve the problem.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ESPAILLAT).
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker,
like many Americans, like many of my
colleagues, I am deeply troubled by the
way the Trump administration has
handled the treatment of migrants,
particularly children, at the border.
But I stand here to say tonight,
Madam Speaker, that if, by passing
this emergency supplemental bill, we
will save one child’s life, just one
child’s life, then it is worth it, and we
should vote for it.
We speak about the moneys as being
allocated in the budget. But the only
number that is really important in this
debate is the six children that have
died at the border. And we will con-
tinue to hold this administration ac-
countable for its treatment of mi-
grants, particularly young children.
Madam Speaker, every time we deny
help to the triangle countries, this cri-
sis is aggravated. Every time we stop a
mom and her children at the border
and they have to go through the river
and drown, this crisis is worsened.
Every time we deny children the basic
human services that they need, this
crisis becomes tragic.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
We must reject this bill today and de-
velop a bipartisan solution to address
the crisis at our border. Workers, and
children, and caretakers, and Border
Patrol have been waiting almost 2
months for the resources they need to
do their jobs and receive our care.
This bill turns our backs on these
people and ties the President’s hands. I
implore Members to stop this and vote
‘‘no’’ on this measure.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
The humanitarian crisis at the bor-
der demands action. This bill funds a
compassionate response, while doing
our utmost to protect the rights and
dignity of migrants. I urge my col-
leagues, join me. Let’s pass this bill.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, as a
senior member of the Committees on the Judi-
ciary and Homeland Security, I rise in strong
support of H.R. 3401, the ‘‘Emergency Supple-
mental Appropriations for Humanitarian Assist-
ance and Security at the Southern Border Act
of 2019.’’
I support this legislation because it provides
the humanitarian assistance needed to ad-
dress the inhumane conditions and treatment
of immigrants, especially immigrant children,
that this Administration has created and al-
lowed to persist.
The scenes emanating from the Southern
border are heartbreaking, and they have been
for a very long time.
I remember when I was at the border, vis-
iting with children separated from their fami-
lies.
I remember young baby Roger, a very
young child, who was separated from his fam-
ily.
We are learning of children living in squalid
conditions.
A chaotic scene of sickness and filth is un-
folding in an overcrowded border station in
Clint, Texas, my homestate, where hundreds
of young people who have recently crossed
the border are being held, according to law-
yers who visited the facility this week.
Some of the children have been there for
nearly a month.
Children as young as 7 and 8, many of
them wearing clothes caked with human ex-
crement and tears, are caring for infants
they’ve just met.
Toddlers without diapers are relieving them-
selves in their pants.
Teenage mothers are wearing clothes
stained with breast milk.
Most of the young detainees have not been
able to shower or wash ( their clothes since
they arrived at the facility, those who visited
said.
And it is inexplicable, indefensible, and inhu-
mane that they are not even being provided
toothbrushes, toothpaste or soap.
Just reflect on that for a moment; innocent
children and toddlers are being denied soap
and toothpaste at the very same time that
similar treatment to a prisoner of war would
violate Article 26 of the 1949 Geneva Conven-
tion:
The Detaining Power shall be bound to
take all sanitary measures necessary to en-
sure the cleanliness and healthfulness of
camps and to prevent epidemics . . . . Also,
apart from the baths and showers with which
the camps shall be furnished, prisoners of
war shall be provided with sufficient water
and soap for their personal toilet and for
washing their personal laundry; the nec-
essary installations, facilities and time shall
be granted them for that purpose.
The arrival of thousands of migrants at a
time, overflowing the border patrol facilities of
the Customs and Border Patrol, Immigration
and Customs Enforcement and Health and
Human Services, has created a humanitarian
crisis that has resulted in unsafe, unsanitary
conditions and tragic deaths.
It is imperative that this House take decisive
action to provide the necessary resources and
capabilities to mitigate the humanitarian crisis
created by this Administration and provide for
the basic human rights of everyone involved.
If Congress and the Administration fail to
come to an agreement, the situation at the
border will only deteriorate.
Cutting funding to these agencies now will
not punish the agencies or the Administration:
it will punish the migrants.
Congress has an urgent moral responsibility
to protect children and families, and defend
the health, dignity and lives of those in need.
Conditions at Customs and Border Protec-
tion facilities along the border have been an
issue of increasing concern as officials warn
that the recent large influx of migrant families
has driven many of the facilities well past their
capacities.
In May, the inspector general for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security warned of ‘‘dan-
gerous overcrowding’’ among adult migrants
housed at the border processing center in El
Paso, with up to 900 migrants being held at a
facility designed for 125.
In some cases, cells designed for 35 people
were holding 155 people.
This shameful episode in American history
is capped by the resignation announced today
of John Sanders, the Acting Commissioner of
the U.S. Customs and Border Protection
whose tenure at CBP included children being
kept at border stations with deplorable condi-
tions, including a facility that one of the inde-
pendent inspectors, a medical doctor, com-
pared to ‘‘torture facilities.’’
This is why it is I strongly support this sup-
plemental funding bill, which provides:
1. $934.5 million for processing facilities,
food, water, sanitary items, blankets, medical
services, and safe transportation;
2. $866 million to reduce reliance on influx
shelters to house children;
3. $200 million for an integrated, multi-agen-
cy processing center pilot program for families
and unaccompanied children, with participation
by non-profit organizations;
4. $100 million for legal services for unac-
companied children, child advocates, and
post-release services;
5. $60 million to assist jurisdictions experi-
encing a significant influx of migrants and non-
profit organizations serving those commu-
nities;
6. $20 million for Alternatives to Detention;
7. $15 million for the Legal Orientation Pro-
gram to educate migrants about their rights
and legal proceedings; and
8. $9 million to speed up placement of chil-
dren with sponsors and manage their cases.
In total, Madam Speaker, this legislation
provides $4.5 billion in emergency spending to
address the humanitarian crisis at the bor-
der—securing robust funding for priorities in-
cluding legal assistance, food, water, sanitary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.124 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5159
June 25, 2019
items, blankets and medical services, support
services for unaccompanied children, and ref-
ugee services, which will relieve the horrific
situation of over-crowding and help prevent
additional deaths.
Equally important, this supplemental pro-
tects families and does not fund the Adminis-
tration’s failed mass detention policy.
Instead, the bill smartly provides funding for
effective, humane alternatives to detention
which has a proven track record of success;
places strict limits on influx shelters; protects
sponsors from DHS immigration enforcement
based on information collected by HHS during
the vetting process; and creates strong over-
sight by Congress.
Madam Speaker, the bill before addresses
the roots causes of the crisis by reversing the
Administration’s senseless decision to block
economic assistance that Congress has al-
ready appropriated for the Northern Triangle
countries.
It is significant that this legislation clarifies
the intent of prior year appropriations for Gua-
temala, Honduras, and El Salvador which spe-
cifically required these governments to take
steps to curb migration, improve border secu-
rity, including preventing human smuggling
and trafficking, and trafficking of illicit drugs
and other contraband; combat corruption; and
support programs to reduce poverty and pro-
mote equitable growth, particularly in areas
contributing to large number of migrants,
among many other conditions.
The bill provides, however, that not less
than 75 percent of any funds that cannot be
provided to the central governments of such
countries due to their failure to meet the cer-
tification requirements shall be reprogrammed
through nongovernmental organizations or
local entities in such countries and that the
balance of such reprogramming must be to
countries within Latin America and the Carib-
bean.
Madam Speaker, I am particularly pleased
that the Manager’s Amendment to this human-
itarian emergency supplemental appropriations
bill includes a provision that I worked very
hard to have included and which requires the
Secretary of Homeland Security to submit to
the Congress a plan for ensuring access to
appropriate translation services for all individ-
uals encountered by U.S. Customs and Border
Protection, U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, and U.S. Citizenship and Immigra-
tion Services
It is simply unconscionable to subject ref-
ugee child from Honduras or El Salvador or
Guatemala to legal proceedings conducted in
a language foreign to him or her without the
assistance of a translator conversant in that
child’s native tongue. Also to be able to trans-
late for new desperate migrants from Africa
and other nations.
Another reason to support this legislation is
that it contains important oversight provisions
to hold the administration accountable and to
protect the rights and dignity of migrants, in-
cluding:
No funding for a border wall or barriers, or
for ICE detention beds;
Prohibits the use of funds for any purpose
not specifically described;
Places strict conditions on influx shelters to
house children by mandating compliance with
requirements set forth in the Flores settlement;
Protects sponsors and potential sponsors
from DHS immigration enforcement based on
information collected by HHS during the spon-
sor vetting process;
Ensures congressional oversight visits to fa-
cilities caring for unaccompanied children with-
out a requirement for prior notice;
Requires monthly reporting on unaccom-
panied children separated from their families;
Requires additional reporting about the
deaths of children in government custody; and
Ensures CBP facilities funded in the bill
comply with the National Standards on Trans-
port, Escort, Detention, and Search.
Madam Speaker, since December 2018, six
minor children have died in custody after
being apprehended by U.S. border agents
since December.
We cannot wait any longer to resolve the
humanitarian crisis on the southern border ex-
acerbated by this Administration.
That is why I support H.R. 3401, and urge
all members to join me in voting to pass this
critically needed legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 462, the pre-
vious question is ordered on the bill, as
amended.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of Rule XIX, further
consideration of H.R. 3401 is postponed.
f
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GEN-
ERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
FUDGE). Pursuant to House Resolution
460 and rule XVIII, the Chair declares
the House in the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union
for the further consideration of the
bill, H.R. 3351.
Will the gentlewoman from Colorado
(Ms. DEGETTE) kindly take the chair.
b 2051
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
3351) making appropriations for finan-
cial services and general government
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes, with Ms.
DEGETTE (Acting Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose earlier today,
amendment No. 10 printed in House Re-
port 116–126 offered by the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL) had
been disposed of.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
126 on which further proceedings were
postponed in the following order:
Amendment No. 3 by Mr. KING of
Iowa.
Amendment No. 4 by Ms. NORTON of
the District of Columbia.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. KING OF
IOWA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. KING) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the noes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 191, noes 226,
not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 411]
AYES—191
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.059 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5160 June 25, 2019
NOES—226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—21
Abraham
Cárdenas
Clyburn
Duffy
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Lucas
McCaul
Meeks
Neal
Peters
Radewagen
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
Yoho
b 2116
Mr. CISNEROS and Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts changed their vote from
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Messrs. LONG, MEADOWS, and KING
of New York changed their vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. YOHO. Madam Chair, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 411.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MS. NORTON
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. SHALALA).
The unfinished business is the demand
for a recorded vote on the amendment
offered by the gentlewoman from the
District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the ayes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 226, noes 198,
not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 412]
AYES—226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Young
NOES—198
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Moulton
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—14
Abraham
Cárdenas
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Lucas
Meeks
Neal
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
b 2122
Ms. WATERS changed her vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.041 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5161
June 25, 2019
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I move
that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE) having assumed the chair,
Ms. SHALALA, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 3351) making appropria-
tions for financial services and general
government for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, and for other pur-
poses, had come to no resolution there-
on.
f
EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL AP-
PROPRIATIONS FOR HUMANI-
TARIAN ASSISTANCE AND SECU-
RITY AT THE SOUTHERN BOR-
DER ACT, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3401)
making emergency supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses, will now resume.
The Clerk will report the title of the
bill.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker,
I have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. RUTHERFORD. I am in its cur-
rent form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Rutherford of Florida moves to recom-
mit the bill H.R. 3401 to the Committee on
Appropriations with instructions to report
the same back to the House forthwith with
the following amendment:
Page 4, line 11, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘increased by $64,621,000)’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Florida is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of his motion.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker,
my motion is very simple. I propose to
add $64 million to the operations and
support account for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement for basic pay and
overtime, bringing the total for pay up
to the President’s request.
Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment is a law enforcement organiza-
tion with a legislative mandate to up-
hold the laws of this country. Officers
at the border are tasked with trans-
porting families from the intake facili-
ties and moving kids out of DHS cus-
tody and into HHS children’s care
sites.
Further, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement is working to combat
human trafficking at our border. Over
the past 2 months, enforcement officers
uncovered 735 fraudulent documented
fake families.
These traffickers are exploiting our
laws and forcing our children to make
this dangerous journey north in hopes
that they will be released into our
country.
ICE plays a vital role in stopping
trafficking and punishing those who
traffic in innocent children. I suggest if
the majority truly cares about these
children, vote ‘‘yes’’ on this amend-
ment to give ICE the resources and the
pay to stop human traffickers.
Madam Speaker, I have been to the
border and I have seen the hard work
that these officers do. Officers are
working overtime to process the record
number of migrants trying to enter
through our southern border. However,
Madam Speaker, this bill does not fair-
ly compensate ICE officers for their ad-
ditional hard work going after human
traffickers, and I ask Members to vote
‘‘yes’’ for the children, for the children,
for the children.
As a lifetime law enforcement offi-
cer, not paying these officers for their
work is unacceptable. We would never
treat our local law enforcement offi-
cers like this back home. These hard-
working men and women should not be
punished by the partisan politics in
Washington.
Madam Speaker, we are asking those
on the ground to do a job, and this Con-
gress has a responsibility to com-
pensate them. I urge my colleagues to
support this motion and vote ‘‘yes’’ to
pay our Federal law enforcement offi-
cers for the work they do each and
every day keeping this country safe.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, I
rise in opposition to this motion to re-
commit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Texas is recognized for
5 minutes.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, I op-
pose this motion to recommit because,
as written, this motion to recommit
would mean that Congress would have
absolutely no say over how this money
would be used, and we know full well
that, without restraint, this adminis-
tration uses funding for cruelty and
chaos.
Madam Speaker, I invite my col-
leagues to focus on the issues at hand:
children, sleeping on concrete floors;
children, some as young as 8 years old,
caring for infants; a toddler, 22 months
old, soiled and without a diaper; an
outbreak of lice and the flu. This is not
a description of a developing nation.
This is happening today, on our watch,
in the United States of America, to
children. It is happening in El Paso,
Texas, on the border, our new Ellis Is-
land.
There is no doubt, Madam Speaker,
that the increasing number of families
have presented a challenge at our front
door. There is no doubt that the most
vulnerable among us, especially those
children in U.S. custody, are suffering
in misery. But there is also no doubt
that draconian hard-line policies, fo-
cused on detention only, have turned
this challenge into a crisis.
We must do something, and we must
do something now. And today, we can.
Today, we can vote on a border supple-
mental that allows processing facilities
to buy things like food, water, and
blankets. It boosts funding for legal as-
sistance for migrants. It funds the nec-
essary work of stabilizing Central
America in an effort to address the
root cause of migration. It gives Con-
gress the tools for more oversight over
facilities like those in Clint, Texas,
which have shocked the Nation. It
helps ease the burden on overwhelmed
Border Patrol agents and Customs offi-
cers, who will be one step closer to get-
ting back to the job that they were
trained to do. It reimburses commu-
nities and nonprofits that have shoul-
dered the burden for too long. And it
provides badly needed funding to HHS:
money to get those children out of
those facilities and into more humane
care.
I can assure you, gentlemen, this is
not a laughing matter for this side of
the House.
And thanks to appropriators who
know how concerned we are about
these hard-line policies that turn a
challenge into a crisis. They have
placed guardrails in this bill, unlike
this motion to recommit, in order to
prohibit funding from going to any ac-
tivity not prescribed by Congress, like
conducting immigration raids that ter-
rorize our communities.
Will this appropriations bill solve
every problem or address every con-
cern? Of course, it won’t.
Do we have much work to do? Of
course, we do. And many of us have
pieces of legislation and reform that we
would love for you to join us in work-
ing on.
But today, this vote is not about
solving every single problem, nor can it
be.
Vote ‘‘no’’ on this motion to recom-
mit and vote ‘‘yes’’ on the supple-
mental.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker,
I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by 5-minute votes
on:
Passage of the bill; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 205, noes 218,
not voting 9, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.128 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5162 June 25, 2019
[Roll No. 413]
AYES—205
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—218
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—9
Abraham
Gabbard
LaMalfa
Lucas
Meeks
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 2141
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
Pursuant to clause 10 of rule XX, the
yeas and nays are ordered.
This will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 230, nays
195, not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 414]
YEAS—230
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—195
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.049 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5163
June 25, 2019
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Pressley
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Tlaib
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—8
Abraham
Gabbard
Lucas
Meeks
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Thornberry
b 2147
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
HURRICANE SEASON
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to discuss the importance of hur-
ricane and disaster preparedness.
This month of June marks the start
of hurricane season. Each year, there
are around 12 named storms; 6 of them
are hurricanes, 3 of those are major
hurricanes.
Even as far as my district in New
Jersey, hurricanes and other tropical
weather events can be destructive.
Superstorm Sandy hit New Jersey in
2012, and we are still feeling the effects.
With the hurricane season upon us, it
is important to remind our constitu-
ents to be prepared. Every family
should know whether they are in an
area that has the potential to be af-
fected by a hurricane.
Every family should have an evacu-
ation plan as well as a plan for shel-
tering in place. Every family should
keep a list of important phone num-
bers, and keep vital records and docu-
ments safe and with them. And most
importantly, every family should listen
closely to their local officials and fol-
low their instructions.
Mr. Speaker, we can help educate
constituents about hurricane prepared-
ness, and in the process, save lives.
f
BLUE GRASS ARMY DEPOT
(Mr. BARR asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to speak on behalf of my constituents
at the Blue Grass Army Depot in Rich-
mond, Kentucky.
Established as an ammunition and
general supply storage depot in 1941,
the Blue Grass Army Depot is now one
of two remaining Army installations in
the United States that stores and de-
stroys chemical weapons.
The important work of the employees
at the depot ensures America’s worthy
task of destroying our chemical weap-
ons stockpiles and making good on our
commitment to the Chemical Weapons
Convention.
I am proud that operations to get rid
of these stockpiles began earlier this
month, a process that will result in the
destruction of thousands of chemical
rockets and projectiles over the next
several years.
This vital task could not be achieved
without the support and input of mem-
bers of the Madison County community
who serve on the Kentucky Chemical
Demilitarization Citizens’ Advisory
Commission.
I want to personally thank commu-
nity leaders like Craig Williams—who
has literally worked for decades on the
safe destruction of these chemical
weapons—and County Judge Executive
Reagan Taylor, who have continually
advocated for the safety of their com-
munity and have made an enormous
impact on the operations of the depot.
I look forward to seeing my district
continue to set the international
standard for chemical demilitarization.
f
SUICIDE AND MENTAL HEALTH
CHALLENGES
(Ms. WILD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. WILD. Mr. Speaker, as some are
aware, today marks the 1-month anni-
versary of the death of my beloved life
partner, Kerry Acker. What most peo-
ple don’t know is that Kerry’s death
was a suicide.
Kerry was 63 years old. He shouldn’t
have had a care in the world. He was fi-
nancially secure and had a warm, lov-
ing family and dozens of friends. He
loved them all. And yet, incomprehen-
sibly, he seemingly did not grasp the
toll his absence would have on those
who loved him.
Why am I sharing this very personal
story? Because we all need to recognize
that mental health issues know no
boundaries. I do not want anyone else
to suffer as he suffered, nor for any
family to suffer as mine has over the
past month.
This is a national emergency. In 2017,
there were more than 47,000 suicides in
this country and more than 1.4 million
suicide attempts. Across our country,
suicides rose by 30 percent between 1999
and 2018.
Behind these numbers are grieving
partners and spouses, parents and chil-
dren, siblings, friends, and relatives.
Every community in our country has
been touched in some way by major
mental health challenges.
Removing the stigma cannot just be
a slogan. We need to make it real
through our actions. That means build-
ing a future where people truly under-
stand that they should feel no more
shame over seeking treatment for this
disease than they would seeking treat-
ment for any other disease or medical
condition.
To anyone out there who is strug-
gling, I am urging you to reach out.
There are people who love you and who
will suffer more than you know if they
lose you. Help is available 24/7 through
911 or the National Suicide Prevention
Lifeline, 1–800–273–TALK.
To anyone who is concerned about
someone in their life, please pick up
the phone or take that drive to go see
them. Don’t wait.
f
b 2200
RECOGNIZING THE LEGACY OF
JAMES BOGGS
(Ms. TLAIB asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, it is with
great pride and respect that I recognize
the legacy of James Boggs, a worker
and activist who played a pivotal role
in labor organizing and the civil rights
movement in the city of Detroit.
James Boggs was born in Alabama in
1919. He eventually moved to Detroit
where he became an auto worker. Ac-
tive in his worker’s union, Mr. Boggs
was passionate about the political
issues facing workers and African
Americans. His experiences and in-
creasing interest in far-left philoso-
phies inspired him to pen ‘‘The Amer-
ican Revolution: Pages from a Negro
Worker’s Notebook,’’ his most well-
known work.
Mr. Boggs married Grace Lee in 1953.
Their influence as a couple and individ-
ually had tremendous impact on the
organizing community, drawing influ-
ence from global history and observa-
tions of the everyday struggles of peo-
ple.
Together, the Boggs’ grassroots ef-
forts to uplift voices of community
members resulted in their founding of a
summer leadership program. That leg-
acy and that program lives on in The
James and Grace Lee Boggs School in
Detroit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.050 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5164 June 25, 2019
I am proud to acknowledge and uplift
Mr. Boggs in many of his achievements
as we celebrate the 100th anniversary
of his birthday.
f
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS OF
DECEASED CHILDREN
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
earlier today I was very pleased to
have had one of my amendments passed
in the Financial Services appropria-
tions legislation that really many peo-
ple are not aware of. That is the utili-
zation of deceased children’s Social Se-
curity numbers.
Fraudulent individuals add more in-
sult and hurt to those families who
have lost their precious children by
stealing their Social Security numbers
and utilizing them in the public arena.
It is important to note that these So-
cial Security numbers are very valu-
able because, obviously, children have
no long record of any credit impropri-
eties or bad credit, and, therefore, it
seems as if you have a perfect number
to do all manner of havoc and to create
a trail of responsibility for these
mourning parents and guardians.
So we have asked for an investiga-
tion into the use of these Social Secu-
rity numbers and a method in which to
stop these fraudulent individuals from
using the Social Security numbers of
deceased children, but more impor-
tantly, adding to the absolute devasta-
tion of these families that their little,
precious loved one is now being abused
and misused in their death.
I thank my colleague, the Honorable
BARBARA LEE, who offered the amend-
ment on my behalf on the floor, but I
am grateful to the Financial Services
and General Government Sub-
committee appropriations chair, rank-
ing member, and the full committee
chair and ranking member. This is an
important amendment that will stop
these tragic incidences from impacting
these mourning families on the loss of
their little ones.
f
HOUSE BILLS APPROVED BY THE
PRESIDENT
The President notified the Clerk of
the House that on the following dates
he had approved and signed bills of the
following titles:
April 12, 2019:
H.R. 276. An Act to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish the Recognizing In-
spiring School Employees (RISE) Award Pro-
gram recognizing excellence exhibited by
classified school employees providing serv-
ices to students in prekindergarten through
high school.
April 16, 2019:
H.R. 2030. An Act to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to execute and carry out agree-
ments concerning Colorado River Drought
Contingency Management and Operations,
and for other purposes.
April 18, 2019:
H.R. 1839. An Act to amend title XIX to ex-
tend protection for Medicaid recipients of
home and community-based services against
spousal impoverishment, establish a State
Medicaid option to provide coordinated care
to children with complex medical conditions
through health homes, prevent the
misclassification of drugs for purposes of the
Medicaid drug rebate program, and for other
purposes.
May 10, 2019:
H.R. 1222. An Act to amend the Pittman-
Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facili-
tate the establishment of additional or ex-
panded public target ranges in certain
States.
May 23, 2019:
H.R. 2379. An Act to reauthorize the Bullet-
proof Vest Partnership Grant Program.
June 6, 2019:
H.R. 2157. An Act making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
f
SENATE BILLS APPROVED BY THE
PRESIDENT
The President notified the Clerk of
the House that on the following dates
he had approved and signed bills of the
Senate of the following titles:
April 6, 2019:
S. 252. An Act to authorize the honorary
appointment of Robert J. Dole to the grade
of colonel in the regular Army.
April 8, 2019:
S. 863. An Act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify the grade and pay of
podiatrists of the Department of Veterans
Affairs.
April 16, 2019:
S. 725. An Act to change the address of the
postal facility designated in honor of Cap-
tain Humayun Khan.
May 31, 2019:
S. 1693. An Act to reauthorize the National
Flood Insurance Program.
June 12, 2019:
S. 1436. An Act to make technical correc-
tions to the computation of average pay
under Public Law 110–279.
June 24, 2019:
S. 1379. An Act to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service Act
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response,
and for other purposes.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 559. An act to amend section 6 of the
Joint Resolution entitled ‘‘A Joint Resolu-
tion to approve the Covenant To Establish a
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
land in Political Union with the United
States of America, and for other purposes’’.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 10 o’clock and 3 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, June 26, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1420. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of General Paul
J. Selva, United States Air Force, and his
advancement to the grade of general on the
retired list, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1370(c)(1);
Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as amended by
Public Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b)); (110 Stat.
293); to the Committee on Armed Services.
1421. A letter from the Deputy Chief, Auc-
tions Division, Office of Economics and Ana-
lytics, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting the Commission’s final
rule — Auction of Cross-Service FM Trans-
lator Construction Permits Scheduled for
June 25, 2019; Notice and Filing Require-
ments, Minimum Opening Bids, Upfront Pay-
ments, and Other Procedures for Auction 100
[AU Docket No.: 17-329] received June 18,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
1422. A letter from the Assistant Legal Ad-
viser, Office of Treaty Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting reports concerning
international agreements other than treaties
entered into by the United States to be
transmitted to the Congress within the
sixty-day period specified in the Case-Za-
blocki Act, pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(a); Pub-
lic Law 92-403, Sec. 1(a) (as amended by Pub-
lic Law 108-458, Sec. 7121(b)); (118 Stat. 3807);
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
1423. A letter from the Associate General
Counsel for General Law, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting three (3)
notifications of a federal vacancy, a designa-
tion of acting officer, or discontinuation of
service in acting role, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat.
2681-614); to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
1424. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development,
transmitting the Department’s Inspector
General’s semi-annual report for October 1,
2018, through March 31, 2019, pursuant to Sec.
5(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as
amended; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
1425. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Interior, transmitting notifica-
tion that the Department issued payments
to eligible local jurisdictions under the Pay-
ments In Lieu of Taxes (PILT) Program, 31
U.S.C. 6901-6907, as amended; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
1426. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — 2019 Marginal Production Rates [No-
tice 2019-38] received June 20, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 1199. A bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study re-
garding the accessibility of websites of the
Department of Veterans Affairs to individ-
uals with disabilities (Rept. 116–127). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN7.138 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5165
June 25, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 462. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3401) mak-
ing emergency supplemental appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes (Rept. 116–128). Re-
ferred to the House Calendar.
CONSENSUS CALENDAR
Under clause 7 of rule XV, the fol-
lowing motion was filed with the Clerk:
Motion No. 5, June 25, 2019 by Mr.
GARAMENDI on H.R. 550
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana,
Ms. SHALALA, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, and
Mr. SIRES):
H.R. 3456. A bill to amend the Peace Corps
Act to reauthorize the Peace Corps, better
support current, returning, and former vol-
unteers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committee on Education and Labor, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr. ENGEL):
H.R. 3457. A bill to direct the Postmaster
General to issue a forever stamp honoring
the 1969 New York Mets on the 50th Anniver-
sary of their World Series victory; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself
and Mrs. DINGELL):
H.R. 3458. A bill to promote innovative ap-
proaches to outdoor recreation on Federal
land and to increase opportunities for col-
laboration with non-Federal partners, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Agriculture, Transportation and
Infrastructure, Energy and Commerce, and
Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr.
ROUDA, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. POCAN, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mrs. AXNE, Mr. CISNEROS, and Ms.
FINKENAUER):
H.R. 3459. A bill to ensure that certain ma-
terials used in carrying out Federal infra-
structure aid programs are made in the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and in addition to the Committees
on Agriculture, Energy and Commerce, Fi-
nancial Services, Homeland Security, and
Natural Resources, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self, Mr. MCCAUL, Ms. BASS, Mr.
SHERMAN, Mr. MEEKS, and Mr.
CICILLINE):
H.R. 3460. A bill to facilitate effective re-
search on and treatment of neglected trop-
ical diseases through coordinated inter-
national efforts; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ (for herself, Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
SCHRADER):
H.R. 3461. A bill to establish a Community-
Based Institutional Special Needs Plan dem-
onstration program to target home and com-
munity-based care to eligible Medicare bene-
ficiaries, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and in addition
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Mr.
CRIST):
H.R. 3462. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a credit against
tax for disaster mitigation expenditures; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. NORTON, Ms. OMAR,
Ms. DEAN, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. PALLONE, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. SIRES, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. SABLAN,
Mr. RASKIN, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. POCAN, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr. NADLER, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. HAYES,
and Mrs. TRAHAN):
H.R. 3463. A bill to secure the rights of pub-
lic employees to organize, act concertedly,
and bargain collectively, which safeguard
the public interest and promote the free and
unobstructed flow of commerce, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut (for
himself, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. MOULTON,
Ms. SHALALA, Ms. HILL of California,
Ms. MATSUI, Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr.
ALLRED, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BERA, Mr. BEYER,
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mrs. BUSTOS,
Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CASE, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. COO-
PER, Mr. CORREA, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. COX of California, Mr.
CROW, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
DEAN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. DEGETTE,
Ms. DELAURO, Ms. DELBENE, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. MICHAEL
F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
ENGEL, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS, Mr. FOSTER,
Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas,
Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. HECK,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. HIMES,
Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. JOHNSON
of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. KEATING, Ms. KELLY
of Illinois, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILDEE,
Mr. KILMER, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. LAMB, Mr. LANGEVIN,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Ms. LEE of California, Mrs. LEE of
Nevada, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, Mr.
LOEBSACK, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. LYNCH, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
MENG, Ms. MOORE, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mr. NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. NEAL, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr.
NORCROSS, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PAL-
LONE, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
PASCRELL, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. PETERS, Mr. PETERSON,
Ms. PINGREE, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. RUIZ,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. SABLAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
SARBANES, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. SIRES, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Ms. TITUS,
Ms. TLAIB, Mr. TONKO, Mrs. TORRES
of California, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. VEASEY, Mr.
VELA, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. WATERS,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. WELCH,
Ms. WILD, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
YARMUTH, and Ms. SPANBERGER):
H.R. 3464. A bill to establish a National and
Community Service Administration to carry
out the national and volunteer service pro-
grams, to expand participation in such pro-
grams, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself, Mr.
COLE, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. CASTOR
of Florida, Mr. KIND, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. SPEIER, and
Mr. SHERMAN):
H.R. 3465. A bill to authorize the Fallen
Journalists Memorial Foundation to estab-
lish a commemorative work in the District
of Columbia and its environs, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. ESTES (for himself and Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama):
H.R. 3466. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to clarify the authority of
the Secretary of the Treasury to rescind
identifying numbers of tax return preparers;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. HECK (for himself, Mr. COOK,
Ms. HAALAND, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas,
Mr. KILDEE, and Mr. LUJÁN):
H.R. 3467. A bill to rescind each Medal of
Honor awarded for acts at Wounded Knee
Creek on December 29, 1890, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. CRIST, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. NORTON, Ms. HAALAND,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SOTO, and Ms.
CRAIG):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.038 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5166 June 25, 2019
H.R. 3468. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide that sex in-
cludes sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. CLAY, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
ROUDA, Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. SARBANES,
Mr. WELCH, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. KELLY of
Illinois, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Ms. PLASKETT, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
PRESSLEY, and Ms. TLAIB):
H.R. 3469. A bill to direct the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to carry out
covert testing and risk mitigation improve-
ment of aviation security operations, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Ms. UNDERWOOD):
H.R. 3470. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide basic and emer-
gency supplemental living assistance grants
under the student support services program;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 3471. A bill to make available the con-
tinued use of Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Pro-
gram project use power by the Kinsey Irriga-
tion Company and the Sidney Water Users
Irrigation District, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. GABBARD, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. KHANNA, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Ms. MENG,
Ms. MOORE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. POCAN, and Mr.
WELCH):
H.R. 3472. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to ensure college for all; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr.
TONKO, and Mr. CARTWRIGHT):
H.R. 3473. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for an invest-
ment tax credit related to the production of
electricity from offshore wind; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 3474. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to include truck combinations
in the definition of automobile transporter
for purposes of certain length limitations; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself and Mr.
GUTHRIE):
H.R. 3475. A bill to amend the National
Telecommunications and Information Ad-
ministration Organization Act to provide for
necessary payments from the Spectrum Re-
location Fund for costs of spectrum research
and development and planning activities,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. MURPHY (for herself and Mr.
HIMES):
H.R. 3476. A bill to express the sense of
Congress that section 502 of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947, together with other intel-
ligence community authorities, obligate an
element of the intelligence community to
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees written notification, by not
later than 7 days after becoming aware, that
an individual in the executive branch has
disclosed covered classified information to
an official of an adversary foreign govern-
ment using methods other than established
intelligence channels, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Intelligence
(Permanent Select).
By Mrs. MURPHY (for herself, Mr. COO-
PER, and Mr. CUNNINGHAM):
H.R. 3477. A bill to limit the authority of
the President to modify duty rates for na-
tional security reasons and to limit the au-
thority of the United States Trade Rep-
resentative to impose certain duties or im-
port restrictions, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committee on Rules, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 3478. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the low-income
housing credit basis limitation rules in the
case the acquisition of an existing building;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself, Mr.
BEYER, and Mrs. WALORSKI):
H.R. 3479. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the qualified con-
tract exception to the extended low-income
housing commitment rules for purposes of
the low-income housing credit, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. PAYNE:
H.R. 3480. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Transportation to declare that an aviation
humanitarian crisis exists for airports im-
pacted by a major disaster or emergency,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. PAYNE (for himself and Mr.
SIRES):
H.R. 3481. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to issue regulations to re-
quire air carriers to disclose to consumers
the actual wheels-off and wheels-on times for
certain domestic passenger flight segments,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
H.R. 3482. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to waive certain re-
quirements for naturalization for American
Samoan United States nationals to become
United States citizens, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committee on Natural
Resources, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself, Mr.
WILLIAMS, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. KATKO,
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. COX of California, Mr. COO-
PER, Mr. RYAN, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. VELA, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Mr. KHANNA, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Ms. LEE of California, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. RUTHER-
FORD, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
WOMACK, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. BALDERSON, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mrs. LURIA, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. BRIN-
DISI, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. CROW, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. NADLER, Ms. TITUS, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
ARRINGTON, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr.
HECK, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. PLASKETT, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. COURTNEY,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. BEYER,
Mr. MARSHALL, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Mr. KILMER, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. CLYBURN, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. PASCRELL, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. LOEBSACK,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. WAT-
KINS, Mr. SCALISE, Mrs. FLETCHER,
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. CASTOR of Florida,
Ms. ESHOO, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, and Mr. LUJÁN):
H.R. 3483. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint commemorative coins
in recognition of the 75th anniversary of the
integration of baseball; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
CORREA, and Mr. LANGEVIN):
H.R. 3484. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to authorize the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security to establish a
rotational cybersecurity research program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, and Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY):
H.R. 3485. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide that over-
the-road bus drivers are covered under the
maximum hours requirements; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. SWALWELL of California:
H.R. 3486. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit corrupt foreign in-
fluence over the President, the Vice Presi-
dent, and their immediate family members,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 3487. A bill to improve the Higher
Education Act of 1965, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for
himself, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. CORREA,
and Mr. RICHMOND):
H.R. 3488. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to require the Secretary
of Homeland Security to establish a commis-
sion to enhance cultural competence and im-
prove recruitment and outreach efforts at
the Coast Guard Academy, to amend title 14,
United States Code, to modify the process
for congressional nomination of individuals
for appointment as cadets at the Coast
Guard Academy, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. TRONE (for himself, Ms. WILD,
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
SHALALA, and Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 3489. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Education to establish an Advisory Com-
mission on Serving and Supporting Students
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25JN7.100 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5167
June 25, 2019
with Mental Health Disabilities in Institu-
tions of Higher Education, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself, Mr.
MARSHALL, and Mr. SCHNEIDER):
H.R. 3490. A bill to amend the Truth in
Lending Act to prohibit certain unfair credit
practices, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. WATKINS (for himself and Ms.
DAVIDS of Kansas):
H.R. 3491. A bill to approve the Kickapoo
Tribe Water Rights Settlement Agreement,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources, and in addition to the
Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 3492. A bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to make
a permanent program for the procurement of
unprocessed fruits and vegetables to provide
healthier school meals, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr. ENGEL):
H. Res. 461. A resolution congratulating
the 1969 New York Mets on the 50th Anniver-
sary of their World Series victory; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. MOORE, Mr. LEWIS,
Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. SOTO, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Ms. LEE of California, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
RUSH, and Mr. CLAY):
H. Res. 463. A resolution recognizing the
contributions of African Americans to the
musical heritage of the United States and
the need for greater access to music edu-
cation for African-American students, and
expressing support for the designation of
June as African-American Music Apprecia-
tion Month; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
78. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Legislature of the State of Montana, rel-
ative to House Joint Resolution No. 26, urg-
ing the United States Congress to include a
citizenship question on the 2020 census; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
79. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Montana, relative to House
Joint Resolution No. 17, urging the United
States Congress to enact legislation that en-
ables federal agencies to support states’ ef-
forts to combat aquatic invasive species; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
80. Also, a memorial of the House of Rep-
resentatives of the State of Montana, rel-
ative to House Resolution No. 5, expressing
the sentiment that pornography is a public
health hazard that must be addressed
through education, prevention, research, and
policy change at the community societal
level; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
81. Also, a memorial of the House of Rep-
resentatives of the State of Montana, rel-
ative to House Resolution No. 3, requesting
congressional enactment of legislation to
improve health care services for veterans; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
82. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Montana, relative to House
Joint Resolution No. 4, requesting that the
federal government take action to protect
interstate and foreign commerce and Mon-
tana’s right to export coal; jointly to the
Committees on the Judiciary and Ways and
Means.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 3456.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 3457.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 8: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.R. 3458.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, clause 2
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 3459.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 3460.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ:
H.R. 3461.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 3462.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority to law and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises as
enumerated in Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 3463.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I; Section 8; Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution states The Congress shall have
Power To regulate Commerce with foreign
Nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes.
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut:
H.R. 3464.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution of the United States of America
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO:
H.R. 3465.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. ESTES:
H.R. 3466.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: ‘‘To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. HECK:
H.R. 3467.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution. Congress shall have the power
to make Rules for the Government and Reg-
ulation of the land and navel Forces.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 3468.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 3469.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power To . . . provide for the
common Defence and general Welfare of the
United States
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 3470.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 3471.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. JAYAPAL:
H.R. 3472.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 3473.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 3474.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Ms. MATSUI:
H.R. 3475.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mrs. MURPHY:
H.R. 3476.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, which gives Congress the
power to provide for the common defense and
to make all laws necessary and proper to
carry out this power.
By Mrs. MURPHY:
H.R. 3477.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, which grants Congress
the power to lay and collect taxes, duties,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25JN7.100 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5168 June 25, 2019
imposts and excises and the power to regu-
late commerce with foreign nations.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 3478.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 3479.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. PAYNE:
H.R. 3480.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 3—Congress has
the ability to regulate Commerce with for-
eign Nations, and among the several States,
and with the Indian Tribes.
By Mr. PAYNE:
H.R. 3481.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 3—Congress has
the ability to regulate Commerce with for-
eign Nations, and among the several States,
and with the Indian Tribes.
By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
H.R. 3482.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. RICHMOND:
H.R. 3483.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is introduced pursuant to the
powers granted to Congress under the Gen-
eral Welfare Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 1), the
Commerce Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 3), and
the Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1 Sec.
8 Cl. 18).
Further, this statement of constitutional
authority is made for the sole purpose of
compliance with clause 7 of Rule XII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives and
shall have no bearing on judicial review of
the accompanying bill.
By Mr. RICHMOND:
H.R. 3484.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 3485.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. SWALWELL of California:
H.R. 3486.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1, 3, and 18; Ar-
ticle I, Section 9, Clause 8
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 3487.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 3488.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. TRONE:
H.R. 3489.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 3490.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To
regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.
By Mr. WATKINS:
H.R. 3491.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 3492.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 40: Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, Mrs. DEMINGS, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 51: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 141: Mr. COOK and Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 333: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 366: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 550: Mr. NADLER, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr.
LATTA, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. CLEAVER,
Mr. YOHO, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. TIPTON, Mr.
WOODALL, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. ROGERS of Ala-
bama, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. WEBSTER of Flor-
ida, and Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 647: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, and Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 707: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 724: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 728: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. KING of New
York, Mr. MULLIN, and Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 737: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 763: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 776: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 856: Mrs. LESKO, Mr. KING of Iowa, and
Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 860: Mr. SAN NICOLAS.
H.R. 864: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 877: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 878: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 911: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 924: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 943: Mr. HECK, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr.
CONNOLLY, and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1019: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 1034: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 1049: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1058: Mr. LATTA, Mr. UPTON, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. SOTO, and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 1108: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. MCNERNEY,
and Mr. GUTHRIE.
H.R. 1109: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 1111: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1128: Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
HECK, and Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 1133: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and
Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1135: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1153: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1155: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1163: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 1175: Mr. BYRNE, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
HASTINGS, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, and Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 1191: Mr. HARDER of California, Ms.
HILL of California, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. DOGGETT, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, and
Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1225: Mr. PAYNE and Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 1236: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1266: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1294: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 1301: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1309: Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 1327: Mr. NEWHOUSE and Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER.
H.R. 1342: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1354: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 1358: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 1370: Mr. POCAN and Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama.
H.R. 1372: Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 1377: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1379: Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. WELCH, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. KING of New York, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, and
Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 1380: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1383: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1406: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 1407: Mrs. MILLER, Mr. CLINE, Mr.
SERRANO, and Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 1418: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 1435: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 1446: Mr. STIVERS and Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 1450: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr. HECK, Ms. OMAR,
and Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 1497: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1530: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1551: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 1570: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. NEGUSE,
Mr. BACON, Ms. DEGETTE, and Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts.
H.R. 1572: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 1610: Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 1641: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. COLE,
and Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 1646: Mr. HECK, Ms. WILD, Mr. HIMES,
and Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 1679: Mr. BALDERSON and Mr. HARRIS.
H.R. 1680: Mr. MAST, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. BOST,
Mr. YOUNG, Mr. MEUSER, and Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1683: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 1692: Mr. VARGAS and Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 1695: Mr. COOK and Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1696: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 1708: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 1709: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mrs.
BUSTOS, and Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1715: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 1723: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr.
LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 1725: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1753: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1754: Mr. CROW and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1769: Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 1773: Mr. COHEN and Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1801: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1830: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 1855: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
MITCHELL, Mr. HICE of Georgia, and Mr. HAR-
RIS.
H.R. 1872: Mr. PALAZZO.
H.R. 1873: Mr. NEWHOUSE and Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 1923: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1978: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 1980: Mr. CASE, Ms. PORTER, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. KAPTUR,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, Mr. VAN DREW, Ms. SPEIER, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.047 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5169
June 25, 2019
H.R. 1981: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2015: Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 2023: Mr. CRENSHAW and Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 2031: Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
MOORE, and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 2037: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
CICILLINE, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 2056: Mr. COLE and Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 2075: Ms. WILD, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, and Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 2107: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2134: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 2135: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2148: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2156: Mr. MCEACHIN.
H.R. 2171: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 2178: Mr. CUNNINGHAM and Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2186: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2205: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2208: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2222: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 2236: Mr. PALAZZO.
H.R. 2256: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 2258: Mr. LOEBSACK and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2283: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2293: Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. CROW, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
WATKINS, Ms. TITUS, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LATTA, Ms. OMAR, and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 2328: Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 2350: Mr. SUOZZI and Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 2381: Mr. BACON and Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 2415: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Ms. DELAURO, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and
Ms. MENG.
H.R. 2420: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2422: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 2424: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 2428: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 2441: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2443: Mr. BANKS, Mr. NEWHOUSE, and
Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 2468: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 2482: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 2484: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2498: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2505: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 2549: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2569: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. CART-
WRIGHT.
H.R. 2594: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2604: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 2605: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 2615: Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr.
KINZINGER, and Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 2633: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2646: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 2667: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 2680: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 2689: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2702: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 2711: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 2720: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 2721: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 2722: Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs.
MCBATH, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. LAWSON
of Florida, Mr. SABLAN, and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2742: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 2768: Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 2771: Mr. COLLINS of New York, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, and Mrs. MIL-
LER.
H.R. 2772: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 2774: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 2810: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio and Mr.
STEUBE.
H.R. 2825: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 2829: Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. CASTRO of Texas,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. WELCH,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. BEYER, and Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER.
H.R. 2833: Mr. LUJÁN and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2897: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Ms.
HAALAND, Mrs. MURPHY, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 2970: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2975: Ms. STEVENS and Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 2988: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 3005: Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. MCCLINTOCK, Mr. THOMPSON
of California, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. BERA, Mr.
COOK, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. COSTA, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. ESHOO,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. NUNES, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. HILL
of California, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. AGUILAR, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr. RUIZ,
Ms. BASS, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. CALVERT,
Ms. WATERS, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. PORTER, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 3006: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 3073: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 3082: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, and Mr.
TRONE.
H.R. 3096: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3182: Mr. ARRINGTON and Mr. MAR-
SHALL.
H.R. 3183: Mr. STIVERS and Mr. KING of
Iowa.
H.R. 3192: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 3197: Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. RUSH, and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 3200: Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 3206: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 3207: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. EVANS, and
Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 3214: Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Ms. NORTON, and Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 3225: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 3260: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas and Mr.
KIM.
H.R. 3296: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
KHANNA, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 3312: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3315: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3319: Mr. BARR and Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 3332: Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SCHIFF, and Ms.
MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 3350: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3369: Ms. DEAN, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. VAN DREW, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3370: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3375: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. RUIZ, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
SHIMKUS, Mr. FLORES, Mr. CARTER of Geor-
gia, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. GRIFFITH, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mrs. LOWEY, and Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 3379: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 3409: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 3412: Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. HUNTER, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, Mr. FLORES, Mr. WALDEN, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. HAGEDORN, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. CARTER of
Georgia, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. HURD of
Texas, Mr. BOST, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. GUTH-
RIE, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. BACON, and Mr.
CURTIS.
H.R. 3414: Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. TRONE, Miss
RICE of New York, Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts, and Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 3429: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 3436: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 3451: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Ms. MOORE, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, and Mr.
SUOZZI.
H.R. 3452: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. CÁRDENAS, and Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN.
H.R. 3453: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. HUFFMAN and Ms. CRAIG.
H.J. Res. 35: Mr. KILMER.
H.J. Res. 48: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.J. Res. 59: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H. Con. Res. 48: Mr. HORSFORD.
H. Res. 109: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H. Res. 114: Mr. KING of New York and Mr.
MARSHALL.
H. Res. 220: Mr. COOPER, Mr. CROW, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. WATKINS, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr.
TRONE, and Ms. KAPTUR.
H. Res. 221: Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr.
WRIGHT, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, and Mr.
TRONE.
H. Res. 222: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H. Res. 231: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H. Res. 259: Mr. CRENSHAW, Mrs. HARTZLER,
Mr. PERRY, Mr. FLORES, Mr. STIVERS, Mr.
NORMAN, and Mr. BUCK.
H. Res. 296: Ms. STEVENS and Mrs. LEE of
Nevada.
H. Res. 300: Ms. OMAR.
H. Res. 321: Ms. STEVENS.
H. Res. 345: Ms. SPEIER.
H. Res. 358: Mr. CICILLINE.
H. Res. 399: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H. Res. 452: Mr. FORTENBERRY and Mr.
COSTA.
H. Res. 457: Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. NUNES, Mr.
LYNCH, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. HARDER of
California.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN7.053 H25JNPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S4475
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JUNE 25, 2019 No. 107
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Gracious God, You have given us eyes
to see, ears to hear, and minds to un-
derstand. Reveal Yourself to our law-
makers so that what they see, hear,
and think will glorify You. Today, may
they desire and do that which is most
acceptable to You. Lord, use them so
that Your will may be done in our Na-
tion and world as they trust the unfold-
ing of Your powerful providence. As
they wait for You, O God, renew their
strength, enabling them to mount up
with wings as eagles, running without
weariness and walking without faint-
ing.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TAX TREATIES AND PROTOCOLS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
later today, the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee is scheduled to con-
sider four protocols to the United
States’ tax treaties with Spain, Swit-
zerland, Japan, and Luxembourg. I sup-
port swift action on these protocols
both in committee and in the Senate,
and I urge my colleagues to vote yes on
them.
I encourage the committee to also
take up the new tax treaties with
Chile, Hungary, and Poland as soon as
possible. These new treaties will pro-
vide important benefits to U.S. tax-
payers and the U.S. Government.
After years of discussion and debate,
the time has come to move forward on
all of these bilateral agreements.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
TAX TREATIES AND PROTOCOLS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
let me first associate myself with the
remarks of the chairman of the Fi-
nance Committee. These tax treaties
are extremely important to a number
of American businesses, and I thank
him for his advocacy.
f
IRAN
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
the Senate and the Nation are closely
watching the situation in the Gulf.
Last week, the recent recklessness
from Tehran reached a new level. Iran
fired on an unmanned U.S. intelligence
aircraft that was flying over inter-
national waters. This is as violent and
dangerous an overt provocation as any
nation has aimed at the United States
in, literally, years.
This is not a time for partisanship,
but, unfortunately, we are already see-
ing extreme voices on the far left that
are so afflicted by the ‘‘Trump derange-
ment syndrome’’ that they repeat Ira-
nian talking points and advertise the
absurd notion that our country, our ad-
ministration, our President are some-
how to blame for Tehran’s violent ag-
gression. Blame America first. By 2019,
nobody should need a history lesson on
Iran, but, apparently, some need a re-
fresher, because there should be no
question about who is at fault.
Iran has disregarded international
law and violated the laws of armed con-
flict since the first days of the Islamic
Republic. Its malign activities as the
world’s most active state sponsor of
terrorism include its crusade to de-
stroy Israel, including its sponsorship
of countless terrorist attacks; the ma-
levolence throughout the Persian Gulf,
including proxies in Yemen who have
recently attacked civilian targets; pe-
rennial threats to close the Strait of
Hormuz, a key international waterway
that is essential to global commerce;
and, of course, the longstanding asym-
metrical war it has waged against us
that began with the infamous takeover
of the U.S. Embassy in 1979 and the 50-
plus hostages who were held captive for
444 days; the provision of weapons,
training, funding, and direction to ter-
rorist groups, including Hamas,
Hezbollah, the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, the Taliban, and Shiite militias
in Iraq, which are responsible for the
murders of hundreds of U.S. service-
members from Lebanon to Iraq to Af-
ghanistan, and more attacks plotted on
U.S. targets worldwide, including in
our own homeland.
The record is blindingly obvious. It is
why so many of us opposed the Obama
administration’s deal with Iran. Many
of us understood that the agreement
not only failed to properly address the
nuclear threat but that it also com-
pletely ignored the other threats that
Iran posed to international peace and
stability. In fact, some prescient Mem-
bers of this body warned that the deal
would amplify Iran’s dangerous behav-
ior.
I remember back in 2015 when the
current ranking member on the For-
eign Relations Committee insisted the
Obama administration’s policy would
invite the kind of mess we see today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.000 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4476 June 25, 2019
Here is what he said:
If there is a fear of war in the region, it
will be one fueled by Iran and its proxies and
exacerbated by an agreement that allows
Iran to possess an industrial-sized nuclear
program and enough money in sanctions re-
lief to significantly continue to fund its heg-
emonic intentions.
This was said by our colleague from
New Jersey, who was the ranking mem-
ber on the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee back in 2015.
Here is my colleague from New York,
the current Democratic leader, and
what he said: ‘‘Under this agreement,
Iran would receive at least $50 billion
in the near future and would undoubt-
edly use some of that money to redou-
ble its efforts to create even more trou-
ble in the Middle East and, perhaps, be-
yond.’’ That was from the Democratic
leader in that same year.
He acknowledged that the hard-lin-
ers’ ‘‘No. 1 goal [is] strengthening
Iran’s armed forces and pursuing even
more harmful military and terrorist
actions.’’
This is exactly the situation Presi-
dent Trump inherited in 2017, as
emboldened Tehran was committed to
spending its new resources on military
capabilities, exporting terrorism, and
pursuing regional hegemony. So Presi-
dent Trump was right to seek a better
deal and apply maximum pressure on
Tehran until it changed its desta-
bilizing behavior. Tough sanctions are
compounding the economic pain the
mullahs have brought on their own
people through corrupt mismanage-
ment.
Iran is responding to this legitimate
and judicious application of diplomatic
and economic pressure the way it has
effectively operated for years—what do
they always do?—through violence, at-
tacks against commercial vessels in
international waters, sponsored at-
tacks against civilian targets in the
Gulf, and then last week’s unprovoked
attack on our unarmed aircraft.
We face a choice here. Will we legiti-
mize and incentivize Iran’s use of ter-
ror and aggression or will we stay reso-
lute and apply appropriate and propor-
tionate pressure until Tehran respects
the fundamental norms of inter-
national behavior?
Last Thursday, President Trump con-
sulted with a bipartisan group of con-
gressional leaders and national secu-
rity chairmen and ranking members.
The President weighed advice from a
number of sources. It is clear he was
listening to congressional leaders.
Clearly, the President wants to avoid
war—hence the deliberate and judi-
cious approach he has taken since the
shoot-down; hence his repeated efforts
to give Iran’s leaders an off-ramp to-
ward negotiations.
Nevertheless, there is a general con-
sensus that this act of aggression can-
not stand. Tehran must understand it
may not respond to legitimate diplo-
matic pressure with illegitimate vio-
lence. It is in our national security in-
terest for the United States to deter
attacks against American forces that
are operating legally in international
waters and to honor our long history of
defending the freedom of the seas and
the freedom of international com-
merce.
Since Iran’s aggression and threats
to global commerce threaten everyone,
I hope all nations will join the United
States and its allies in condemning
Tehran and imposing significant con-
sequences for its hostile acts.
Look, I understand the significant
appetite in Congress for the President
to consult with us as he continues to
deliberate. Obviously, that is appro-
priate. My colleagues should share
their views with the administration. I
understand that the Foreign Relations
and Armed Services Committees will
be holding hearings with senior admin-
istration officials after July 4. What is
not productive is an effort being pro-
moted by the Democratic leader that
would preemptively tie the hands of
our military commanders, weaken our
diplomatic leverage, embolden our ad-
versaries, and create a dangerous
precedent.
Therefore, I will strongly oppose the
Udall amendment, which would gratu-
itously take crucial options off the
table. It would hamstring both our
commanders and our diplomats, all of
whose leverage depends on the knowl-
edge that the United States reserves
the right to act forcefully if and when
necessary.
Ten years ago, my friend the Demo-
cratic leader said verbatim: ‘‘When it
comes to Iran, we should never take
the military option off the table.’’ That
is exactly what the amendment he sup-
ports would do.
Nearly every President has utilized a
limited use of force against adversaries
without pre-authorization from Con-
gress. Nearly every President has done
that. Of course, major hostilities re-
quire congressional concurrence and
the support of the American people. So
the Democrats should stop their fear
mongering because no one is calling for
major military operations—not the
President, not his military com-
manders, not the Republicans in Con-
gress.
This amendment would impose un-
precedented limitations that would go
far beyond the War Powers Resolution.
As drafted, it could prevent U.S. mili-
tary forces from defending themselves
against an attack or conducting a
timely counterattack. If we had action-
able intelligence that an attack were
imminent, it would prevent U.S. forces
from doing anything about it. If Israel
were attacked, it would prevent U.S.
forces from providing immediate as-
sistance to our closest ally in the re-
gion.
This amendment flies in the face of
many Democrats’ past clarity about
Iran, and it casts doubt on our serious-
ness in defending our own military per-
sonnel, much less the freedom of the
seas.
The Democrats must set aside the
habit of unthinking, reflexive opposi-
tion to every single thing this Presi-
dent does. That is why I call it the
Trump derangement syndrome. Per-
haps it would help if they were re-
minded of what the Democratic can-
didate for President in 2016 had to say
about what her policy would have been
toward Iran and the Gulf had she been
elected.
Here is what Hillary Clinton had to
say:
I will reaffirm that the Persian Gulf is a
region of vital interest to the United States.
. . . We’ll keep the Strait of Hormuz open.
We’ll increase security cooperation with our
Gulf allies, including intelligence sharing,
military support, and missile defense to en-
sure they can defend against Iranian aggres-
sion, even if that takes the form of
cyberattacks or other nontraditional
threats.
She went on:
Iran should understand that the United
States, and I as President, will not stand by
as our Gulf allies and partners are threat-
ened.
She concluded by saying:
We will act.
That was from Hillary Clinton.
So nearly every word of that state-
ment accurately describes the policy
the Trump administration has pursued
for the last 2 years.
Our Gulf allies and partners are
threatened by Iran. Israel is threatened
by Iran. The Strait of Hormuz is
threatened by Iran. And America has
been attacked by Iran. The threat is
not in doubt. The question is whether
Democrats still mean what they said or
whether they completely changed their
minds about how the U.S. must respond
simply because—simply because—the
White House has changed parties.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Now, Mr. Presi-
dent, on a related matter, this week
the Senate is considering the National
Defense Authorization Act. The cur-
rent situation with Iran is a stark re-
minder of our urgent responsibility to
ensure our military remains equipped
and ready to deter threats and defeat
potential challenges to our security.
When we pass the NDAA this week,
the Senate will extend a 58-year tradi-
tion of authorizing the resources U.S.
forces need to stay on the cutting edge.
And I hope we will do so with wide, bi-
partisan support.
This year’s NDAA directs $750 billion
to fund the priorities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, from the Navy’s fleet
strength to missile defense capabili-
ties. It increases procurement for crit-
ical weapons systems, doubles down on
research and development of next-gen-
eration technologies, and makes new
investments in training and support
services for servicemembers and their
families.
In short, this is legislation that sends
a clear signal to our men and women in
uniform and to the rest of the world.
Here is what it says: The United States
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.002 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4477
June 25, 2019
takes today’s challenges seriously. We
take our commitments seriously. And
we take our defense seriously.
So especially in light of current
events, I was incredulous to hear the
Democratic leader call yesterday to
postpone moving forward with the
NDAA. Apparently, some of our Demo-
cratic friends need to go hit the Presi-
dential campaign trail. They can’t be
here because they have to go campaign
for not 1 day but 2 this week. They are
too busy to stay in the Senate and au-
thorize the resources that our All-Vol-
unteer Armed Forces rely on. Postpone
legislation on our national defense to
accommodate the Presidential race in
the middle of this ongoing crisis over-
seas? Come on. Come on.
I am sorry our Democratic friends
feel compelled to skip out so they can
compete for the favor of ‘‘the resist-
ance.’’ The rest of us, the Republican
majority—we are going to be right
here. We are going to be right here
working and voting to make America
stronger and safer.
Of course, the NDAA does not ex-
haust the urgent priorities we should
attend to this week. As my Republican
colleagues and I have been arguing for
2 months now—2 months—Congress
must address the humanitarian crisis
down on the southern border. The situ-
ation is well documented. Nobody is in
doubt.
For months, record numbers of peo-
ple have arrived at the border, over-
whelming—completely overwhelming
agencies and facilities. The Depart-
ment of Homeland Security has had to
redirect resources and personnel from
other critical missions to assist the
Border Patrol. The Secretary of Health
and Human Services has said: ‘‘We are
running out of money.’’ This is the
Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices. ‘‘We are functionally out of
space.’’
I was encouraged last week when
badly needed emergency funding fi-
nally garnered some momentum. Under
the leadership of Chairman SHELBY and
Senator LEAHY, the Appropriations
Committee approved funding 30 to 1.
That is about as close to bipartisan as
it could ever get.
There is no reason, no excuse, why
this noncontroversial measure should
not get a similar, overwhelmingly bi-
partisan vote here on the floor this
week—this week, not some other time.
Actually, there is no reason it
shouldn’t happen today. Partisan
delays have exacerbated this crisis long
enough. It is well past time my Demo-
cratic colleagues stop standing in the
way and let the Senate get this done.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2020—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of S. 1790, which
the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1790) to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and
for other purposes.
Pending:
McConnell (for Inhofe) Modified Amend-
ment No. 764, in the nature of a substitute.
A motion was entered to close further de-
bate on McConnell (for Inhofe) Modified
Amendment No. 764 (listed above), and, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Rule XXII of
the Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on
cloture will occur on Wednesday, June 26,
2019.
McConnell (for Romney) Amendment No.
861 (to Amendment No. 764), to provide that
funds authorized by the Act are available for
the defense of the Armed Forces and United
States citizens against attack by foreign
hostile forces.
McConnell Amendment No. 862 (to Amend-
ment No. 861), to change the enactment date.
McConnell Amendment No. 863 (to the lan-
guage proposed to be stricken by Amend-
ment No. 764), to change the enactment date.
McConnell Amendment No. 864 (to Amend-
ment No. 863), of a perfecting nature.
A motion was entered to close further de-
bate on the bill, and, in accordance with the
provisions of Rule XXII of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, a vote on cloture will
occur upon disposition of McConnell (for
Inhofe) Modified Amendment No. 764.
McConnell motion to recommit the bill to
the Committee on Armed Services, with in-
structions, McConnell Amendment No. 865,
to change the enactment date.
McConnell Amendment No. 866 (to (the in-
structions) Amendment No. 865), of a per-
fecting nature.
McConnell Amendment No. 867 (to Amend-
ment No. 866), of a perfecting nature.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
9/11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
before I begin, I just heard the leader
conclude his remarks. He didn’t men-
tion the fact today that he is meeting
with several constituents of mine from
New York, including John Feal and
other 9/11 first responders, to discuss a
solution to the shortfall in the Victim
Compensation Fund.
I am glad the leader has agreed to
meet with them. It is a good thing, but
it is not enough to have just a meeting.
These brave men and women who self-
lessly rushed to the towers in the
midst of danger, when no one knew
what would come next, deserve a com-
mitment that their bill will be consid-
ered in a timely manner here on the
floor.
So, again, I urge Leader MCCONNELL
to listen to the 9/11 first responders.
Then give them your commitment,
Leader MCCONNELL, that you will put
their bill on the Senate floor as soon as
it passes the House as a standalone
bill. It will pass the House; it will cer-
tainly pass the Senate, given the co-
sponsorship; and the President will
sign it. The families of those who, just
like our soldiers, rushed to danger to
protect our safety can breathe a sigh of
relief.
Leader MCCONNELL is the one per-
son—this is not a dual responsibility—
I wish it were, at least when we are in
the minority, but Leader MCCONNELL is
the one person who controls the cal-
endar on the Senate floor. He can stand
in the way, as he has done before, or he
can do the right thing and commit to
give this bill the attention it deserves.
I will be eagerly waiting to hear what
the leader says after he meets with the
first responders this afternoon.
IRAN
Madam President, on Iran and the
NDAA, ever since President Trump
unilaterally decided to abandon the
Iran nuclear agreement, our two coun-
tries have been on a path toward great-
er conflict. In the past month, Iran has
heightened its aggressive actions in the
region, prompting responses from the
U.S. Government. No one looks at Iran
through rose-colored glasses. That is
why Americans, myself included, are
worried about the current course of
events. Escalation happens quickly in
the Middle East. Without a steady
hand at the helm, without a coherent
plan or strategy—things this President
has lacked since the moment he took
office—the danger of bumbling into war
is acute.
Democrats have been urging Leader
MCCONNELL to allow us a vote on an
amendment to the NDAA concerning a
possible conflict with Iran. We have an
amendment, led by Senators UDALL,
MERKLEY, MURPHY, and KAINE—cospon-
sored by Republican Senators PAUL and
LEE—that would prohibit any funds au-
thorized by the current NDAA to be
used to conduct hostilities against the
Government of Iran.
Again, this is a dangerous situation.
Even if the President doesn’t intend
war, his erratic, inconsistent, and off-
the-cuff policies could lead us to bum-
ble into war. When we are at war, it
doesn’t matter how we got there. The
loss of life and the loss of treasure,
when we need so much attention here
in America, is very real.
So we have an amendment, and we
are urging Leader MCCONNELL to allow
us a simple vote on an amendment to
the NDAA concerning a possible con-
flict with Iran.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.003 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4478 June 25, 2019
Let me repeat. The amendment is led
by UDALL, MERKLEY, MURPHY, and
KAINE, cosponsored by PAUL and LEE.
So it is bipartisan. It prohibits any
funds authorized by the current NDAA
to be used to conduct hostilities
against the Government of Iran.
Contrary to what the leader just
said, the Udall amendment would not—
would not—diminish our military’s
ability to respond to a provocation or
act in self-defense. The way the leader
characterized the amendment is just
not true. He deliberately distorted the
amendment. He knows better. The
Udall amendment preserves absolutely
our military’s ability to act in self-de-
fense, and it would make it perfectly
clear that if President Trump wants to
send our Nation to war, he would need
Congress to authorize it first, as stipu-
lated by our Constitution.
There is no greater power that the
Founding Fathers gave to Congress
than the ability to go to war. They
were worried about an Executive who
might be overreaching, who might be
erratic, who might be inconsistent—
and we have never had an Executive
who fits those categories more than
this current President—and they want-
ed Congress to be a check. If the Presi-
dent had to explain why he wishes to
go to war, he might be more consistent
and certainly less opaque. We should
have this amendment on the merits,
but we also should have it because this
is how the Senate should work.
S. 1790
Leader MCCONNELL said he would
have an open amendment process. Here
is what he said:
[We’ll] be turning to the NDAA shortly,
that’s one of the most important bills we do
every year. It will be open for amendment.
Leader MCCONNELL’s words, not
mine.
We expect to have a lot of member partici-
pation.
Leader MCCONNELL’s words, not
mine.
It will be open for amendment, said
Leader MCCONNELL. That meaning is
pretty plain, but I must have misheard,
and so must have America, because the
NDAA, let me repeat, is not open for
amendment—not even for a serious and
timely and relevant debate on our pol-
icy with respect to Iran, not even for a
matter of war and peace and the con-
stitutional prerogative of this body to
authorize it or not.
It is not just this amendment that is
being excluded. My friend, the senior
Senator from Minnesota, will offer an
amendment on election security impor-
tant to our national security. My Re-
publican colleague will block it—no
amendments.
There are so many clamoring on both
sides of the aisle that the Senate go
back to amending. If we are not going
to do it on this bill, we are not going to
do it at all this year. This is too com-
mon—no amendments, no bills, a
graveyard in Leader MCCONNELL’s Sen-
ate.
No Senator has been allowed to vote
on their amendments for months. This
is simply not how the Senate is sup-
posed to be. So I urge Leader MCCON-
NELL, for the sake of the Senate and for
the sake of war and peace and for the
sake of the Constitution, to allow us a
vote on our amendment. The leader
should not run the NDAA like he has
run the Senate for much of this year,
like a legislative graveyard, where
issues of consequence are buried so the
callous political interests of the Presi-
dent and the leader can march forward
atop their graves.
BORDER SECURITY
Madam President, on the border, as
the Senate moves to consider a supple-
mental appropriations bill on the bor-
der, I want to turn my colleagues’ at-
tention to what is transpiring there at
the border.
Over the past few months, we have
read reports and seen images of deplor-
able conditions. At the Homestead fa-
cility in Florida, the Trump adminis-
tration has allowed a for-profit deten-
tion company to operate what amounts
to a modern-day internment camp:
children ripped away from their par-
ents, kept in cages, denied nutrition
and hygiene, diapers, toothbrushes.
How can our country do this? All be-
cause some in the President’s purview
think that might deter immigrants:
use these poor little children—2 years
old, 4 years old, we read about one 4
months old—as hostages and cruelly
treat them. It is a black mark on our
country. It is a black mark on those
who allow it to happen at the Home-
stead facility in Florida and in other
places.
Think of what law enforcement
would do if a parent denied their child
this kind of basic care, toothbrushes
and diapers, and put them in cages.
Why on Earth would it be acceptable
for our government to do the same?
Along with millions of Americans, I am
appalled—appalled—by these condi-
tions, and I am appalled by the thought
that some in the Trump administration
may actually want these deplorable
conditions to continue because they
think it will deter future migrants—
migrants who are running away not be-
cause they are drug dealers, not be-
cause they are MS–13 members but be-
cause their children have been threat-
ened by gangs: I am going to murder
your son unless you do what I want; I
am going to rape your daughter unless
you do what I want. Who wouldn’t flee?
These are not evil people. To rip kids
away from their parents, to separate
families as a policy, to discourage im-
migrants fleeing violence, lawlessness,
and degradation is sick and twisted. It
is inhumane. The people who are in
charge of this mess should be ashamed
of themselves, and I can think of no
other President—Democratic, Repub-
lican, liberal, conservative—who would
allow this to continue.
Now we are working on a compromise
appropriations bill here in the Senate
to try to provide more resources and
better conditions for these kids and
their families, but we also have to
grapple with the real challenges at the
border and do more to reduce the num-
ber of migrants who feel they need to
flee their countries in the first place.
That is why Democrats have proposed
to hire more immigration judges at the
border to reduce the backlog of cases
and reduce the number of immigrants
who are held in limbo. That is why we
have proposed allowing asylum seekers
to apply for asylum within their own
countries, not at our border. It makes
sense. That is why we have also pro-
posed additional security assistance to
Central American countries to crack
down on drug cartels, gangs, and
human trafficking, to stem the vio-
lence that impels so many to make the
journey north that is so perilous.
These are the kinds of policies we
should be talking about. They are not
controversial. They are not partisan.
They are simply commonsense—com-
monsense solutions to the problems
both parties have witnessed. The Presi-
dent—this President needs to end the
inhumanity of his administration’s
border management and work instead
with us on real solutions.
SHELBY V. HOLDER
Madam President, I appreciate my
colleagues waiting, but there is a lot
going on here this morning.
Finally, today marks the sixth anni-
versary of the Supreme Court’s disas-
trous decision in Shelby v. Holder,
where a conservative majority under-
cut decades of progress by gutting key
provisions of the Voting Rights Act. It
will go down as one of the lowest mo-
ments of the Roberts Court. When Jus-
tice Roberts says he is not political
and he calls the balls and strikes, the
Shelby decision is an overwhelming
and persuasive argument that that is
not the case with this Chief Justice.
Few pieces of legislation have re-
shaped America for the better quite
like the Voting Rights Act. But 6 years
ago, in a narrow 5-to-4 decision, the
Court eliminated important safeguards
in the law. By the majority’s reck-
oning, such provisions were no longer
needed because discrimination was no
longer a problem. Discrimination was
no longer a problem? Hello. Hello. The
Court said it. Justice Roberts signed
the decision. ‘‘Mr. Balls and Strikes’’
was saying there is no discrimination
in America anymore. It wasn’t a prob-
lem.
Well, in the 6 years since Shelby, 19
States have instituted voting restric-
tions, including laws in North Carolina
that the Fourth Circuit said ‘‘targeted
African Americans with almost sur-
gical precision.’’ No more discrimina-
tion? Prior to the Court’s decision in
Shelby, North Carolina would have
been required to seek approval from
the Department of Justice’s Civil
Rights Division before enacting these
pernicious laws. This is one of many
examples of how State and local offi-
cials have been freed up to implement
discriminatory laws while the courts
struggle to keep up.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.005 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4479
June 25, 2019
Now, in ordinary times, the Senate
would debate ways to reinstate the
safeguards that the Court abolished in
Shelby. We would debate policies like
automatic voter registration and re-
strictions on discriminatory voter ID
laws and efforts that we would make to
make it easier, safer, and more reliable
for Americans to vote. That is what
Senate Democrats have proposed.
But, of course, once again, Leader
MCCONNELL has transformed the Sen-
ate into a legislative graveyard, where
inaction is the order of the day. What
a shame that the leader believes some-
thing as crucial as ensuring that Amer-
icans can exercise the franchise is un-
worthy of the Senate’s time.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 1540
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
I share our leader’s outrage over what
is going on right now at the border
over these private facilities where
these children are being housed and
about the lack of an ability to bring
amendments on the National Defense
Authorization Act. As for the one that
the leader mentioned, it is imperative
that we go forward with this right now.
We have a situation where the Presi-
dent tweets us closer to war each day,
10 minutes short. He got us out of an
agreement that, while imperfect, would
have prevented us from being in the
situation that we are in. Congress must
be a check and balance on this admin-
istration, and under the Constitution,
we should have the ability to do this. I
cannot stress how important this
amendment is.
Today, I am here to talk about an-
other amendment that is also nec-
essary to protect our democracy and
protect our country, and that is about
our elections—our very elections, a
fundamental foundation of our democ-
racy.
We know one thing, and whom do we
know it from? We know it from the
President’s own Director of National
Intelligence. We know it from his FBI
Director. We know it from all of his se-
curity leaders, and that is that Russia
invaded our democracy. They didn’t
use bombs, jets, or tanks. Instead, they
planned a sophisticated cyber mission
to undermine our democratic system.
Special Counsel Mueller also concluded
that Russian interference in our de-
mocracy was ‘‘sweeping and system-
atic.’’
Our elections are less than 500 days
away. We know that Russia is actively
working to attack our democracy
again, and our intelligence officials are
again sounding alarms. President
Trump’s FBI Director said Russia’s ef-
forts to interfere in our 2018 election
were just a ‘‘dress rehearsal for the big
show in 2020.’’
Has the administration worked with
Congress to help craft legislation to
make sure our election systems are for-
tified against future attacks? No, they
actually stopped the bipartisan bill
that was moving ahead at the end of
last year.
I see my colleague from Oklahoma
here, Senator LANKFORD. He and I led
that bill, and the cosponsors, including
the head of the Intelligence Com-
mittee, as well as the ranking member.
It was a bill that had significant sup-
port and still has significant support.
But just as we are about to mark up
that bill in the Rules Committee, the
White House made some calls to Re-
publican Senators. Leader MCCONNELL
made some calls to Republican Sen-
ators, and that bipartisan effort was
stopped in its tracks, which would have
paved the way to making sure that the
Federal election money was given out
to the States and that we would have
had to have backup paper ballots. It
would have paved the way for audits.
Instead, it was stopped in its tracks,
blocked by the White House.
Earlier this month, the President in-
vited more election interference when
he said he would accept help from a
foreign adversary once again. That
happened. It is unprecedented, and it is
wrong. At a time when the President is
failing to do his job to protect our de-
mocracy, Congress must do its job.
In fact, there is bipartisan legislation
that has been introduced in the House
right now that includes many of the
things that I will be talking about
today that includes additional funding.
I do thank the Senator from Okla-
homa, Mr. LANKFORD. He and I led the
way, in addition to our colleagues in
the Appropriations Committee—Sen-
ator SHELBY, Senator LEAHY, Senator
COONS, and others—to make sure that
we got $380 million out to the States
over a year ago. It is time to step up
again.
Everyone remembers what happened
back in the 2000 election. We all saw
those hanging chads displayed on TVs
across the country. That experience
taught America that we needed to up-
date our election equipment. When we
couldn’t figure out who won for Presi-
dent of the United States, yes, maybe
you need to update your election equip-
ment.
So what happened back then? Well,
we passed the Help America Vote Act.
I wasn’t here then, but that is what
they did. It was landmark legislation
that provided more than $3 billion to
States to help them update their elec-
tion infrastructure. That was 17 years
ago, before the iPhone even existed,
and the Federal Government has not
made a big major investment to update
our election technology since.
Russia knew that. What better way
to upend our democracy than to try to
break into our election equipment and
to try to spread propaganda against
campaigns and candidates in our elec-
tion. That is what they did. They con-
ducted sophisticated influence oper-
ations in 2016.
Where do I learn this? I learn this
from the Trump intelligence advisers.
They hacked political committees
and campaigns. They targeted election
administrators and even private tech-
nology firms responsible for manufac-
turing and administering election sys-
tems. In Illinois, the names, addresses,
birth dates, and partial Social Security
numbers of thousands of registered vot-
ers were exposed.
Just recently, we learned that the
election systems in two Florida coun-
ties were hacked by the Russians, and
the Department of Homeland Security
is conducting forensic analysis on com-
puters used in North Carolina after it
was revealed in the Mueller report that
a voting software company was hacked
by Russia.
How much more do we need to know
as we go into these 2020 elections? I
don’t think much more. We have a
common set of facts about what hap-
pened, and we know that there is a con-
tinued threat against our democracy.
What we need to do now is address
these facts with a common purpose—to
protect our democracy and to make
sure that our election systems are re-
silient against future attacks.
We have a long way to go when it
comes to making sure our election sys-
tems are resilient. Right now, 40 States
rely on electronic voting systems that
are at least 10 years old. Do you think
I am telling a surprise to Russia? No,
they know this. Twelve States have no
or partial paper ballot backups—12
states—and 16 States have no statewide
audit requirement to figure out, after
the fact, what happened and if their
elections were secure. These statistics
are alarming because experts agree
that paper ballots and audits are the
baseline of what we need to secure our
election systems.
Many election officials continue to
sound the alarm that they lack the
funding necessary to replace outdated
equipment, hire cyber security experts,
and make other much needed improve-
ments to their election system. So
maybe, as a country, we can just say:
Well, States, if you are not doing this,
it is not our problem. That is yours.
No, this is a Presidential election be-
fore us, and if a few counties in one
swing State or an entire State get
hacked into and there is no backup
paper ballot and we can’t figure out
what happened, the entire election will
be called into question. No Democrat,
no Republican, and no Independent can
want that to happen, especially when
we can prevent it from happening.
The House bill includes the same
amount of money as we did last time,
and that is about 3 percent of the cost
of one aircraft carrier. The bill that I
am proposing now that we move for-
ward to is about 8 percent of the cost of
one aircraft carrier, and that is to pro-
tect our entire democracy from the
kind of modern warfare—not old-fash-
ioned warfare but modern warfare—
that we are seeing today, which is
cyber warfare.
Protecting our democracy from fu-
ture attacks will require modernizing
our election systems and building new
safeguards to prevent cyber attacks,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.007 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4480 June 25, 2019
important steps that will require
meaningful Federal assistance. Do you
really think that the State of Arkansas
or the State of Maine is supposed to be
fully responsible for protecting us from
a foreign power’s cyber attack? I don’t
actually think so. If we could come to-
gether to quickly help States address
things like those hanging chads back
in 2000, which were in fact just a func-
tion of bad election equipment, we cer-
tainly must come together to protect
ourselves from a cyber attack from a
foreign power. By the way, the last
time it was one foreign power. Maybe
this time it will be another one.
We must do the right thing for our
country. That is why I have worked
with my colleagues in the House and
Senate, including Senator LANKFORD,
on legislation that would provide crit-
ical election funding in the coming
years.
The bill before us today, our legisla-
tion, the Election Security Act, would
also require States to use paper bal-
lots, and it would provide funding for
States to implement post-election au-
dits. It would strengthen the Federal
response to attacks on our election
systems by requiring the President to
issue a national security strategy to
protect U.S. democratic institutions
from cyber attacks and influence oper-
ations, and it would establish a bipar-
tisan commission to develop rec-
ommendations—drawing upon lessons
learned from our European allies, who
have also been repeatedly subject to at-
tacks from Russia—to counter election
interference. This is the kind of legis-
lation that the American people elect-
ed us to pass.
As I noted, the House is taking ac-
tion. It will consider similar legisla-
tion this week. The Senate must take
strong action on election security as
well.
I ask unanimous consent that the
Rules Committee be discharged from
further consideration of S. 1540 and the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration; further, that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and the motion to reconsider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table with
no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Is there objection?
Mr. LANKFORD. Reserving the right
to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I
started working on election security
with Senator KLOBUCHAR in 2017. At the
time, I served on the Senate Intel-
ligence Committee. We have worked
together, from the beginning, to make
this a bipartisan—in fact, non-
partisan—issue. Elections are an Amer-
ican event. They have partisan results,
but the act of voting is an American
event, not a partisan event.
We had a hearing in the Rules Com-
mittee. We worked through the proc-
ess. We continue to get feedback. In
fact, she and I worked incredibly hard
to be able to reach out to and have
multiple meetings with secretaries of
State from all over the country to be
able to hear as much feedback as we
could from the States, because elec-
tions are run by States. Elections are
not run by the Federal Government.
Each State runs their own election.
Each county or precinct or parish has
its own structure for doing elections.
In fact, one of the strengths of our sys-
tem is the diversity of how elections
are actually done. So we had to do a lot
of work behind the scenes with all of
these different States, to meet with
their leadership, to meet with Gov-
ernors, and to meet with as many
groups as we possibly could to get it.
The basic goal from the beginning
was to achieve a piece of legislation
that had a couple of features in it.
First, ensure timely information
sharing between the Federal Govern-
ment, State, and local officials because
we learned in 2016 it was not timely in-
formation that was shared. The Fed-
eral Government had visibility on what
Russia was doing; the States and the
precincts did not. It took up to 14
months for the States to find out what
the Russians were doing. That can
never happen again.
Second, we must expedite security
clearances for the State and local elec-
tion officials. Again, we had this issue
in 2016 when Federal officials saw what
was going on by the Russians but said
that the State individuals didn’t have
enough security clearance. So, instead,
they got a nebulous memo that said to
watch out for these IP addresses, with
no explanation as to why. That can
never happen again.
Third is a way to verify the results of
our elections. That should be straight-
forward. Every State, every precinct
should be able to verify that—to go
back to the people in the area and say:
This is how you voted, and this is how
we verified that the number is accu-
rate, that there aren’t additional bal-
lots showing up later that the ma-
chines didn’t count, that suddenly pop
up from nowhere. There are no hanging
chads. There are no inconsistencies. So
people can look and say: That was done
efficiently and professionally.
The administration is taking steps
on the first two of these. In fact, we
had multiple hearings with DHS to
talk about what they are doing to get
security clearances. Now every single
State has individuals within their
State who have security clearances.
Every State has greater cooperation
now with the Federal Government.
Multiple layers of cyber security have
been offered to every single State so
that each State can use their own
cyber protection or add an additional
layer from the Federal Government. It
is up to that State to choose. It is not
a mandated piece that has come down
on them. Almost every State has taken
that, though, and has said that they
want those additional layers of cyber
protection because it is not just about
the voting machine or the piece of
paper; it is how it is counted, how it is
presented, how the unofficial results go
out in the States the night of the elec-
tion. All of those things matter.
DHS has leaned in, and they have
done aggressive work on this in the
last several years. That is why the 2018
election went so smoothly. DHS has
done a tremendous amount of work al-
ready on this.
I have been clear, though, through
this process that this cannot be a way
of federalizing elections and trying to
run the elections or saying that every
piece of election equipment has to be
run through some bureaucracy here in
DC, whatever it may be. This is a State
responsibility that the State has to
take on. Right now, there is not a way
for the States that do not have an elec-
tion system—pieces of hardware for
their elections—to change that hard-
ware before 2020. The first of our elec-
tions is not in November 2020; it is 8
months from now, when our primaries
begin. States cannot purchase the
equipment, put it into place, train the
volunteers, and make that transition
before the 2020 election. So the empha-
sis is, what can we do to assist States
in cyber protection? What can we do to
get information to them? How can we
run this?
In the days ahead, Senator KLO-
BUCHAR and I completely agree that
every State should have a system with
backup paper ballots—every State and
every precinct. Right now that is not
so, but no matter how much money we
throw at the States right now, they
could not make it so by the 2020 Presi-
dential election. It is not possible to
get there.
In the 2018 omnibus, we added $380
million to go to the States. Not all of
that $380 million has even been spent
yet. There is still quite a bit of it that
is banked. But that has all been allo-
cated to the States, and the States are
deciding the best way to use that. In
States like mine—Oklahoma—we use
optical scanners and paper ballots.
That money was used in my State to
assist in cyber protection of the sys-
tem, the transition of the information,
and how the unofficial results get out
to the public. It is a good way to use
those funds to make sure any threats
are being mitigated.
My State, like 21 other States, was
one of the States that the Russians
tried to engage in our election systems.
They came to the State election board
in my State, tried to get into it, found
out the door was locked, and moved on
to another State. They did not get into
our system. But there are other areas
where we could protect it.
Of the $380 million we allocated just
last year, much of it has not even been
spent. So I object to another $380 mil-
lion on top of that when the first part
of it hasn’t been spent yet, and it will
not make a difference in this year’s
election because the $380 million for
last year was really preparing for the
2020 elections.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.008 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4481
June 25, 2019
Here is my concern long term. I don’t
want election security to become a par-
tisan issue. It would be easy for it to
become that. H.R. 1, when it came out
of the House, was clearly a very par-
tisan bill.
I find myself at odds today with a
partner in this, Senator KLOBUCHAR.
We have worked together in a very
nonpartisan way to resolve this issue. I
think we still can resolve this and we
can actually get a result, but a par-
tisan proposal will not get us an end
result in which both parties come to-
gether and resolve this.
I reiterate again that election secu-
rity should never be a partisan issue.
This is about the preservation of our
democracy, and it is something that all
parties—Independents, Republicans,
Democrats, and all parties—agree
should be a central issue.
Having stated all of that, begrudg-
ingly, in this proposal because it is not
a bipartisan proposal—I look forward
to working through it and getting a bi-
partisan proposal done in the days
ahead—I must object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
appreciate the work my colleague has
done with me and others on this issue,
but I do want to point out a few things.
No. 1, I agree that this should not be
a partisan issue, and, in fact, our bill
was as bipartisan as it gets with the
two of us leading the bill, with Sen-
ators WARNER and BURR, the leaders of
the Intelligence Committee, as cospon-
sors, and with Senator GRAHAM and
Senator HARRIS from the Judiciary
Committee. It was a strong bill, and I
would be glad to call that up with an
amendment if he would be willing to do
that.
But one wonders, why wouldn’t we be
able to advance this bipartisan bill? It
is because the White House made it de-
cidedly partisan. They objected to its
moving forward—our own bipartisan
bill. Leader MCCONNELL did not want
that bill to move forward. He made it
very clear.
So let’s be very precise about why we
are having this discussion today, and
that is that we could have done this
bill with the backup paper ballots at-
tached to the funding 1 year ago, but it
was blocked by the Republicans. So
now we are where we are. There is this
idea that we just wait and every year
say: It won’t help the next election,
and it won’t help that next election. I
believe in the importance and urgency
of getting this done.
Secondly, I am not trying to fed-
eralize our elections. In fact, this
model, while there is more money at-
tached to it, is very similar to the
model that we have discussed and that
is included in our bill. It is this idea
that if the States are willing to do
what they are supposed to do, then
they get Federal money. It does not
federalize elections.
Third, the North Carolina example
that I just brought up didn’t just hap-
pen in 2016; it happened much more re-
cently. So our concerns are based on
the assessments that we have been
given by the Trump security advisers
based on what Trump’s FBI Director
said just last month. He didn’t say it
last year; he said last month that this
is happening now and that Congress
must do more to help defend our elec-
tions.
I will repeat that election security is
national security. We must remember
this. Last week, 22 State attorneys
general sent Congress a letter asking
us to take action to protect the integ-
rity of our election infrastructure. We
have received similar letters from
State election officials, and leading
law enforcement officials in nearly half
the country are begging us to take ac-
tion. Think about that.
While I have no doubt that there has
been some progress and there is better
communication, I tend to believe the
people on the ground, the chief law en-
forcement officers in nearly half the
States in this country. I tend to believe
the FBI Director for President Trump
himself, the National Intelligence Di-
rector for President Trump himself.
The integrity of our election system
is a cornerstone of our democracy. The
freedom to choose our leaders and
know with full confidence that those
leaders were chosen in free and fair
elections is something Americans have
fought and died for since our country
was founded.
Going back to 1923, Stalin said to the
Communist Party: Who votes? That
may not matter. What matters is who
counts the votes.
History is repeating itself, and ob-
structing efforts to improve election
security is an insult to those who have
fought for our freedom and those who
work every day to protect our democ-
racy. This is not about one election or
one party. That is why we worked so
hard to have a bipartisan bill and I was
willing to make compromises on that
bill.
We were gut punched by the White
House. Senator BLUNT had sent that
Rules Committee markup. It was ready
to go. I think if that bill were called up
right now, 75 percent of the Senators
right here in this Chamber would vote
for it, but we were gut punched by the
White House. They didn’t want the
backup paper ballots. They didn’t want
to have those options. They didn’t
want to have additional money for
election security.
So I don’t want to hear about how
this is a partisan effort to try to push
this right now. This is not about one
election or one party; it is about our
democracy.
We need to be a united front in fight-
ing against those who interfere with
our democracy, and we must do every-
thing in our power to prevent foreign
interference from ever happening
again. This is a bill we should be on be-
cause it is the Defense Authorization
Act, and it is about the security of our
country and free and fair elections.
That is the fundamental basis for the
security of America.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues. I hope we will find some
way to overcome these objections from
the White House.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, do we
have a schedule this morning in terms
of debate on the floor?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is
no consent agreement.
Mr. DURBIN. I will, of course, defer
to the chairman and ranking member if
they want to move forward on their
legislation, but I would like to ask
unanimous consent to speak for 10 min-
utes.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, if we can
amend that—after a period of 10 min-
utes, the two leaders and the ranking
member be allowed to speak for such
time as they shall consume. That
would work.
Mr. DURBIN. I would be happy to ac-
cept that as a friendly amendment.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. President, it pains me to say this
on the floor of the United States Sen-
ate, but there is no other way to de-
scribe what America is facing today.
By every objective and measurable
standard, the policies of our govern-
ment constitute child abuse when it
comes to the treatment of these chil-
dren on our border. Hardly a day goes
by that we don’t hear another horror
story involving these migrants and
particularly their children and babies.
Having been there and seen it and
read the numbers, I will concede that
we are being overwhelmed, and for
that, there should be some under-
standing and perhaps even forgiveness
if we don’t respond as quickly as pos-
sible. But this has dragged on and on
for months. There are children who are
being held in detention under cir-
cumstances and conditions which are
an embarrassment to this country and
unacceptable in any civilized nation on
Earth, period. It led me to join with 23
other Senators to write to the Inter-
national Red Cross several weeks ago.
The International Red Cross is called
in to countries around the world when
jails and detention facilities have
reached such a point that you need an
international arbiter to come in and
declare to that government and to the
world how deplorable the conditions
are.
I never dreamed there would be a mo-
ment when I would need to ask the
International Red Cross to review our
own detention facilities in the United
States. What brings me to this point?
Well, it is well publicized in the press.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.009 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4482 June 25, 2019
There is a New York Times story of
June 21. Let me read it.
A chaotic scene of sickness and filth is un-
folding in an overcrowded border station in
Clint, Tex., where hundreds of young people
who have recently crossed the border are
being held, according to lawyers who visited
the facility this week. Some of the children
have been there for nearly a month.
Children as young as 7 and 8, many of them
wearing clothes caked with snot and tears,
are caring for infants they’ve just met, the
lawyer said. Toddlers without diapers are re-
lieving themselves in their pants. Teenage
mothers are wearing clothes stained with
breast milk.
Most of the young detainees have not been
able to shower or wash their clothes since
they arrived at facility. They have no access
to toothbrushes, toothpaste or soap.
‘‘There is a stench,’’ said Elora
Mukherjee, director of the Immigrants’
Rights Clinic at Columbia Law School.
. . . ‘‘The overwhelming majority of
children have not bathed since they
crossed the border.’’
I might find that hard to believe had
I not seen for myself, at the El Paso
border crossing, what is happening. Al-
beit, it was several weeks ago, but the
circumstances described in this article
on June 21 mirror what I saw in El
Paso.
Let me say at the outset and very
clearly say that many of the men and
women in the Border Patrol, Customs
and Border Protection, are good, caring
people who come from families them-
selves and privately have told me how
heartbreaking these circumstances are.
I am not going to make excuses for any
wrongdoing by any of them or any Fed-
eral agency. I wouldn’t try. But I do
want to concede the point that there
are many who want to do better but
don’t have the resources to do it.
So why aren’t we doing more here?
Why, in this empty Chamber, isn’t the
Senate coming together and working
on a solution? We came up with over
$400 million in February—a special ap-
propriation for humanitarian purposes
at the border supported on a bipartisan
basis.
Last week, we reported a bill out of
the Senate Appropriations Committee
31 to 1 to appropriate $4.6 billion to
come down and do something about the
circumstance at the border, a humani-
tarian response and more. I supported
it. Most have supported it on both sides
of the aisle. It is time to enact it and
do it as quickly as possible. I stand
ready for that to happen as quickly as
we can schedule it.
In the meantime, we need to ask the
basic question: How have we reached
this point in this country? How have
we reached the point when it comes to
immigration that it is such a national
embarrassment?
Take a look at the record of this ad-
ministration in 21⁄2 years. As you tick
off the items of major policy decisions,
you can find how we reached this point
today.
Remember the first one, the Muslim
travel ban? We were banning people
from Muslim countries from coming
into the United States.
Not too long after, this President de-
cided he was going to eliminate
DACA—a program that allowed 800,000
young people in this country a chance
to live here without fear of deporta-
tion.
Then he turned around and elimi-
nated the status of several hundred
thousand in the United States who
were in temporary protected status be-
cause they were escaping emergencies,
crises in their own countries and nat-
ural disasters.
He followed that up with the notion
of zero tolerance. Remember zero toler-
ance? Remember when Attorney Gen-
eral Sessions quoted the Bible, for
goodness’ sake, as his justification for
separating infants, toddlers, and chil-
dren from their mothers and fathers at
the border? Zero tolerance.
Finally, a Federal court judge in San
Diego said: Enough. I want to know
who those children are, and I want to
know where they are and where their
parents are.
It was a common thing to ask. It
sounds like an easy request, doesn’t it?
It turns out we didn’t keep records.
These kids were separated from their
parents without a record of where they
were going or where the parents were
going. It took weeks, if not months,
and still we can’t resolve the where-
abouts of some of those families who
were separated.
Then came the President’s decision
that he announced by tweet a week ago
that he was going to engage in mass ar-
rests and mass deportations in the
United States. Do you know what that
means? It means children will be com-
ing home from school to empty homes
and wondering where Mom and Dad
are. They are gone, you know. They
have been deported. The fact that they
have lived here for a number of years,
had no problems with the law, and are
part of the community, and the fact
that those children and others in the
household may be citizens doesn’t seem
to be important to this administration.
When we come down to it, we have
reached a point when it comes to immi-
gration—a stage I have not seen in
modern times—where we are being in-
undated at the border and are in com-
plete chaos here in the United States
under the Trump administration. Oh,
this President promised us when he
was elected that he was going to get
tough. Boy, he sure knows how to get
tough. He doesn’t know how to get ef-
fective. He doesn’t know how to cope
with something as terrible as the dis-
integration of the economies and social
justice system in three Central Amer-
ican countries that leads people to cash
in everything they own on Earth to
give it to a transporter or smuggler to
take them and their kids to the border.
That is where we are. That is why we
need to act.
First, we need humanitarian assist-
ance—yes, count me in; the sooner the
better—to put diapers on these babies,
to give them basic foodstuffs, perhaps
clean clothes. That is not too much to
ask this great United States of Amer-
ica.
Secondly, let’s come up with an ap-
proach on Central America that makes
sense. Swearing at them, tweeting at
them, saying you are going to cut off
all assistance to them hasn’t worked
very well, has it, Mr. President?
I found out at the border that smug-
glers use the President’s tough talk to
sell their case: You better get moving.
He is going to get tougher. He is going
to build a wall. You better get moving.
And in panic, they do. This approach is
not working. It is clear that it is not
working.
Finally, haven’t we reached a point
in the United States of America where
we know we need comprehensive immi-
gration reform? I was part of that ef-
fort 6 or 7 years ago. There were four
Democrats and four Republican Sen-
ators. We sat for months—myself, John
McCain, CHUCK SCHUMER, BOB MENEN-
DEZ, MARCO RUBIO, LINDSEY GRAHAM,
Jeff Flake, and MICHAEL BENNET. We
sat for months every night working on
another aspect of immigration reform.
We put together not a good bill—I
think it was a great bill. There was a
lot of compromise in it that I didn’t
like, but that is what happens when
you sit down across the table and in
good faith try to resolve your dif-
ferences.
We brought it to the floor of the Sen-
ate and got 68 votes in the Senate.
Democrats and Republicans said they
are for comprehensive immigration re-
form. As Senator ALEXANDER of Ten-
nessee, a Republican, said a few weeks
ago, if we had passed that bill and
made it the law, we wouldn’t be facing
the mess we are facing today. He is
right to a great degree. I don’t think it
would have solved all the problems, but
it sure would have solved a lot of them.
What happened to that bill after it
passed the Senate with 68 votes? It died
in the House. The Republican House re-
fused to even consider it. So here we sit
with this mess on our hands, with a
President who tweets at people and
threatens mass arrests and mass depor-
tation. And the situation goes from bad
to worse, to even worse, to embar-
rassing when it comes to the treatment
of children.
We can do better as a nation, this Na-
tion of immigrants which I am proud
to be part of. This Nation of immi-
grants has absorbed people from
around the world in a systematic, or-
derly way in the past, and we can do it
again.
We need border security. No one
should come in this country if we don’t
know who they are and what they are
bringing in.
Secondly, we cannot accept everyone
who wants to come to America. It has
to be done in an orderly, thoughtful
way.
Third, we should never accept anyone
coming into this country who is a dan-
ger, period. If they are here undocu-
mented and dangerous, they should
leave, period.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.011 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4483
June 25, 2019
Having said that, don’t we all agree
on that? Can’t we move forward in a
constructive, bipartisan way to solve
this problem, to end this embarrass-
ment? Once and for all, we have to say
to the President that tweets are not
enough.
What this reporter saw, what she re-
ported as stench on the border, is
something that should be an embar-
rassment to all of us. We are better
than that. We need to prove it.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, yester-
day we got down to work on amend-
ments for the national defense author-
ization legislation. We filed a sub-
stitute amendment that included 93 bi-
partisan amendments. When I say 93,
there are 44 Democratic, 44 Republican,
and I think 5 more that we have from
both sides. This is what we have been
trying to do. Both Senator REED and I
have been encouraging people to bring
amendments to the floor for a long pe-
riod of time. In fact, the majority lead-
er, Senator MCCONNELL, has made sev-
eral appeals that in the event this gets
bogged down, go ahead and bring your
amendments down so we can work with
you. That is what we did. The sub-
stitute that we used yesterday incor-
porated 93 amendments, and they were
actually brought to us for fear that
what happened a year ago would hap-
pen again.
I am not sure that the system is
wrong when it does this, but any one
Member of the Democrats or Repub-
licans can stop an amendment from
coming forward.
It takes unanimous consent. People
don’t understand that. Right now, we
are in a position where one individual—
last year, one individual, and at one
point, two individuals said they were
stopping all amendments unless they
got certain consideration for their own
amendment. That seems to be hap-
pening again now. Nonetheless, that is
why we have all of these amendments,
and that is what we have done.
I heard a couple of my colleagues say
that Republicans are blocking consid-
eration of an amendment on Iran, the
Senator UDALL amendment. That is
holding up the bill.
Members of both parties are raising
objections to not just one single
amendment but to all amendments. We
are following a process that allows all
Senators to have their say. That is a
good thing, but it means that anyone
can hold up this bill.
What do we do to preclude damage—
irreparable damage—to the most im-
portant bill of the year, the NDAA? We
have taken the initiative to bring up
amendments and discuss amendments.
I have a list with me of all of the
amendments that are in the bill that
we are talking about, the substitute
bill—the Cotton amendment; the open
source fusion centers; the Pacific Is-
land states; the Perdue amendment—I
can go through all 93 of them. The DOD
Financial Improvement and Audit Re-
mediation Plan, which Senator PERDUE
has been talking about for a long pe-
riod of time—we have it now. It is in
the bill. CORNYN’s bill on overseas ab-
sentee balloting—voting for members
of the Armed Forces—that is in the
bill. All these amendments are there,
and that is what we have been doing.
That is why I found the whole idea of
Senator SCHUMER’s objecting to fin-
ishing this bill, as we had planned to do
it, this week because of the political
debates, the Presidential debates that
are going on—I was pretty shocked yes-
terday to hear that my colleague from
New York, the minority leader, said
that we should delay votes on the
NDAA so that seven Democratic Sen-
ators can participate in primary de-
bates. That is clearly saying that poli-
tics is more important than the na-
tional security.
Whether it is seven or just one Demo-
cratic Senator who wants to partici-
pate, my answer would be the same: We
need to get this bill done to protect the
Nation. I say without apology that the
national security preempts politics.
This is the tradition of the Armed
Services Committee. It is our tradition
for a reason.
I repeat: Senator SCHUMER said we
should delay votes on the most impor-
tant bill of the year—a bill which has a
quickly approaching deadline and
which has wide bipartisan support—for
political purposes. He said: ‘‘There is
no rush to complete the NDAA.’’ He
said that there will be ‘‘no harmful
consequences to our military.’’
I disagree. We have to enact the
NDAA by September 30, the start of the
new fiscal year. We don’t have that
much time to spare. Think about all
the things we have to do between now
and September 30.
If we don’t pass the NDAA on time,
we will delay needed reforms to the
privatized housing scandal. I would call
it a scandal. We have had two hearings
on that. Up until February, no one had
said anything about it. No one said
there is a problem. They talked about
back in the days when we did privatize
housing. I thought it was a good idea.
I was here at the time. I am partially
responsible. It worked for a while, a
couple of years. And then I think a lot
of the contractors got greedy, and they
found shortcuts. I think we in the uni-
forms were somewhat responsible, too,
because they did some things that—
they didn’t have the oversight they had
before, and therefore they didn’t have
the responsibility. So that is a big deal,
and that is something that needs to be
corrected, and that is in the bill. That
is going to be a part of the bill. If we
don’t pass the NDAA, it is not going to
be.
If we don’t pass the NDAA on time,
we will delay $11.2 billion in military
construction projects in 44 States. Yes,
some of those are in my State of Okla-
homa. We would handicap mission-crit-
ical infrastructure for combatant com-
mands protecting America and U.S. in-
terests across the globe. These are
MILCON projects that need to be done.
If we don’t pass the NDAA on time,
we will delay disaster relief for mili-
tary installations still recovering from
the devastating storms and disasters in
Florida, North Carolina, and Nebraska.
If we don’t pass the NDAA on time,
we will lose authorities for ongoing se-
curity cooperation in Afghanistan and
Iraq, reducing pressure on terrorist
threats, encouraging our enemies, and
undermining our partners.
If we don’t pass this NDAA on time,
we will be slowing enactment of the
Fentanyl Sanctions Act, which Senator
SCHUMER is very much concerned about
and has been critical to getting this
done. I think it is very important to in-
hibit the flow of these deadly drugs
across our borders.
If we don’t get the NDAA done on
time, we will let the EPA continue
kicking the can down the road on the
PFAS crisis and providing Americans
safe drinking water.
All of these things are going to hap-
pen if we start delaying it. You might
say we are only delaying it for a week,
maybe 2 weeks; still, that delays every-
thing else, and that also puts it into
the timeframe where we are going to be
busy doing all these other things we
are going to have to do. We have a lot
to do before September 30 and only a
number of legislative days to do it. We
have to pass the NDAA. We have to get
a budget deal. We have to bring the ap-
propriations bills to the floor. These
are all vital to getting our troops the
resources they need on time and with
predictability.
This is a simple request that our
military leaders have made. In fact,
they said it is the best thing we can do
for our national security. This is what
is going on right now.
I also listened to a lot of the discus-
sion on the floor. They are talking
about the concentration camps, all
these—the treatment of our kids. Let
me say, even though that is not in the
purview of the committee that has the
bill, the NDAA—that is Health and
Human Services—I have done some
looking into that. And Don Archer in
my office has spent time with HHS,
and they found out these kids are being
kept well. Fourteen hundred of these
kids are going to go to my State of
Oklahoma, and I am going to be sure
that they are healthy when they get
there and that they are fed properly.
Everyone is going to have their own
bed, their own resources. The staff
servicing these kids is at a 2-to-1 ratio.
I know it sounds great. It sounds pop-
ular. If you want to demean this Presi-
dent and make it look like he is abus-
ing kids, that rings high, but it is just
not true. We are going to have to do
something to correct the misuse. It is
doing a great disservice not just to the
kids but to the bill.
Our responsibility to provide for the
common defense is so important, it is
in the opening lines of the Constitu-
tion. I know a lot of people don’t read
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.012 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4484 June 25, 2019
the old document anymore, but I think
it is pretty important. I would hope
that my colleagues agree—especially
those on the campaign trail—that a
candidate for a higher office in this
country who truly understands the im-
portance of defending this Nation and
our ideas should understand the need
to pass this bill on time. We have to
pass the bill. We have to pass the bill
as soon as possible.
I want to again commend the rank-
ing member of the Armed Services
Committee, Senator REED, for his un-
wavering commitment to our men and
women in uniform. He understands, as
I understand, that this isn’t the only
important thing we have to do.
I would like for everyone to be aware
that there is an effort to delay this bill
for what I have to say would be purely
political reasons. It is so that people
who are on the committee can partici-
pate in a Presidential debate. Well,
they have a daytime job, and they need
to be doing their daytime job, which is
defending America and passing the
NDAA. That is what we intend to do.
I plan to be on the floor all day
today, and I want to make sure this
idea that somehow we are not getting
amendments through, anticipating we
might not be able to get them
through—yesterday, we actually passed
93 amendments—93 amendments. It has
taken several weeks to get all these
amendments in. I am going to be read-
ing off some of these amendments and
making sure that the authors come
down to the floor and talk about their
amendment.
Senator BOOZMAN from Arkansas has
an amendment that would modify au-
thorized strength in the Armed Force
Reserve. It is a very important amend-
ment, and I am sure he is going to be
coming down and talking about his
amendment, as are the other Members.
Some 44 Members actually have
amendments they need to talk about.
We will have that opportunity. I think
we have all day long today to get that
done and get this done and get back on
track and pass the NDAA, the most im-
portant bill of the year.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, first let me
thank Senator INHOFE for his leader-
ship and his cooperation, which has
gotten us to this point in the consider-
ation of the fiscal year 2020 National
Defense Authorization Act. The chair-
man has been thoughtful. He has been
very reasonable.
We had a record hearing in our com-
mittee in terms of the number of
amendments we dealt with and how we
did it in a very collegial fashion. As a
result, we were able to once again, as
he has indicated, include 93 additional
amendments in the substitute package
that has been submitted. That is testi-
mony to the good work of the chair-
man and the outstanding work of our
staff, who have been working very dili-
gently, and I appreciate it.
This is a very good bill. It passed out
of committee by a vote of 25 to 2—to-
tally bipartisan vote. It contains many
needed authorities, funding authoriza-
tions, and reforms that will help the
men and women of our Armed Services.
As both of us have indicated, it also
contains numerous amendments from
many of my colleagues on other issues
of great importance, such as, for exam-
ple, the intelligence authorization. We
have included in this legislation the
work of the Intelligence Committee
not just for this year but the past 3
years. So we will now have up-to-date
authorities for the intelligence com-
munity. We will authorize the Mari-
time Administration. We have provi-
sions that range far and wide. We have
an amendment dealing with the
fentanyl crisis. We have an amendment
dealing with the PFOS/PFAS in our
water around military bases. This is a
significant crisis we are beginning to
recognize more and more each day.
This legislation is extremely sup-
portive of the men and women in uni-
form and, indeed, touches on many
other important aspects that are nec-
essary as we move forward.
As we both said in our opening state-
ments last week, we would like to have
a robust debate on this bill and vote on
amendments. It was the process for
many years. We need to get back to the
process where we have amendments—
some of them contentious, some of
them not so contentious, but there
would be an agreed-upon path, a rea-
sonable time for debate, and then a
vote.
In fact, the Chairman and I try to
work together. When we have dif-
ferences, we say: Well, that will be re-
solved by a vote. If you can’t agree to
a consensus compromise, then in this
Chamber you ultimately hope you can
get a vote, and that will be the decid-
ing factor.
I understand there are differences
about the proceedings, particularly
with respect to the issue of potential
military action against Iran. I do not
think anyone will argue with the fact
that it is a very pressing issue and the
Senate has a role we are obligated to
fulfill. Last week, the chairman and I
were both at the White House, and the
President very graciously listened to
our thoughts and ideas about the re-
sponse to the drone strike.
We are in a situation where potential
conflict or interaction with Iran is not
hypothetical. Just 4, 5 days ago, we
were confronted with a very serious
situation. The President made a deci-
sion not to use a kinetic strike on Iran.
I think that was an appropriate deci-
sion. But we are at a point now where
the Senate as an institution—not as in-
dividuals accommodating the Presi-
dent but as an institution—has to take
a position, I feel.
We understand, too, that as the ad-
ministration applies more and more
pressure on the Iranian regime, there
will be several likelihoods. One will be
that these reactions to our pressure
will take place. As the President indi-
cated in his televised comments, his
first sense was this was probably not
officially authorized, that it may have
been a subordinate who had taken the
action, which had minimized, to a de-
gree, the severity. Of course, the most
significant factor of all was that we
had lost an expensive piece of equip-
ment, but, thank goodness, we didn’t
lose any American personnel. Never-
theless, this pressure campaign is pro-
ducing a counterreaction, and that
counterreaction could be more and
more dangerous to our interests. It
could escalate. It would create a situa-
tion in which the question of armed
conflict with Iran will not be, as I said,
theoretical, but something we will
have to confront.
The dangers of miscalculation and es-
calation on both sides are acute at the
moment. So we have to, I think, as a
Senate take a position with respect to
this issue. That is why I think the
amendment is extremely important.
What I would hope we would all like
to see is that we are able to accomplish
two things—one, to have an adequate
debate and a vote on this amendment.
There may be other amendments peo-
ple will propose on which they will feel
strongly about having votes, and we
could consider those also; two, our
ability to conclude our debate on the
Defense authorization bill and move
forward. I don’t think we have given up
on that pathway yet.
I think we are still trying to find a
pathway to address these critical
issues of national security, with re-
spect to there being a potential con-
flict with Iran as well as our finishing
this bill in a timely fashion. I don’t
think it will be months from now but
really days from now or a week or
more from now that we will finish this
bill. I look forward to working with my
colleagues to find this path forward.
Again, the chairman has been ex-
tremely responsive and thoughtful
about this, and his views and participa-
tion will be critical to these efforts.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, the
past week has lain bare just how dan-
gerous it can be to have a President
who approaches foreign policy as if it
were a reality show, when the worst
thing that can happen is to get kicked
off before the next episode airs—a
President who doesn’t seem to recog-
nize that his words and his decisions
can have life-and-death consequences
for the brave Americans who wear our
Nation’s uniform. No matter your po-
litical party, what we have seen from
the White House of late should worry
every single one of us.
In one breath, Trump is beating the
drums of war, thumping his chest, and
pushing for a conflict that would kill
an unimaginable number of people—
servicemembers and civilians alike. In
the next breath, he tries to act like a
peacemaker who wouldn’t even think
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.013 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4485
June 25, 2019
of starting a new war. It is gaslighting,
plain and simple. Yet it is the closest
thing to a Trump foreign policy doc-
trine since his inauguration.
So, while I am glad he called off a
military strike last week, it hasn’t
made me forget that he and aides like
John Bolton are the ones who brought
us to the brink of war in the first
place. Trump will not get any points
from me for taking a small step to
avert a disaster he himself created, and
I have no confidence whatsoever that
his carelessness will not lead us right
back to that same brink today, tomor-
row, or a week from now because, when
it comes to Iran, Trump’s erratic, inco-
herent strategy isn’t just worrisome, it
is potentially deadly for the men and
women who are willing to sacrifice ev-
erything to keep the rest of us safe.
Look, I ran for Congress so that when
the drums of war were sounded, I would
be in a position to make sure our elect-
ed officials would fully consider the
true costs of war not just in dollars and
cents but in human lives. That was the
vow I made to the troops with whom I
deployed and to all those who have
served since I hung up my uniform. I
am standing here today, on the floor of
the U.S. Senate, to keep that promise.
Right now, more and more Ameri-
cans are preparing to head to a war
zone that is 6,000 miles east in order to
protect this Nation. They are ready to
do their jobs no matter what, just as
they have done time after time, even as
their President and, yes, the Rep-
resentatives in this very Chamber have
neglected theirs.
Again and again, this administration
has laid out two scenarios it says
would justify war with Iran. Then it
has taken actions to make sure those
circumstances become a reality, which
sets us on a collision course that has
life-and-death stakes and no easy off-
ramp.
The first scenario is if Iran edges
closer to making a nuclear weapon.
Well, you don’t need to be a physicist
to understand that Trump himself
made that possibility more likely by
unilaterally pulling the United States
out of the nuclear agreement. In doing
so, he freed Iran from having to abide
by the deal that limited its nuclear
production. Now he is raging about
Iran’s doing the very things his actions
encouraged Iran to do. It is circular
logic with potentially fatal con-
sequences.
The second scenario it has laid out is
an attack on U.S. troops in the re-
gion—another possibility that has been
made more likely by a series of
Trump’s recent moves, as he has made
clear through his bombastic state-
ments and tweets that he is looking for
excuses to send more troops to the
area. Now we are dealing with the en-
tirely predictable fallout from those
actions—the raised stakes, the stoked
tensions, and the louder calls for war
from some on the far right.
Iran is no friend of ours. We were ad-
versaries long before Trump took of-
fice. Yet what we are facing today is,
in part, a manufactured crisis by this
President. The Trump administration
seems to be making foreign policy deci-
sions not based on our Nation’s inter-
ests but to serve some ideological or
political purpose. In that effort, it is
using our troops as bait, as if it is try-
ing to manufacture its own 21st cen-
tury ‘‘Gulf of Tonkin’’ crisis that it
can use to justify war.
In some sort of nightmare deja vu, it
is as if it is drawing from the same
script that led us into Iraq—sowing
chaos, shrouding intelligence, putting
troops in harm’s way—for no clear rea-
son and with no clear end state in
mind. On some days, it almost seems
like it is provoking—even promoting—
war just for war’s sake, repeating those
mistakes of years past that have cost
us so many heroic lives.
It is as if Trump and the extremists
in his administration don’t remember
the sacrifices our troops have made in
the war we are still waging just west of
Iran. It is as if it has forgotten all
those flagged-draped coffins that have
returned home from Iraq and the many
veterans who have come home with
scars, both visible and otherwise, most
of whom will never be the same.
Look, I am no dove. I understand
that war is sometimes necessary, and
our troops certainly do as well. While
Trump and Bolton may have never
deigned to put on the uniform, I volun-
teered and served in the military for 23
years. I chose to fight in a war I did not
support on the orders of a President I
did not vote for. Why? I did it because,
while I may not have believed in the
war, I believed—and still believe—in
the Constitution, and my Commander
in Chief gave a lawful order after his
having been authorized to do so by
Congress. So, while I may not have
supported the war or that President, I
am proud to have deployed to Iraq in
order to have served my country.
I know what is at stake for the thou-
sands of troops this administration is
sending into harm’s way, and I can tell
you it is a whole lot easier to cover
your eyes and order other Americans
to sacrifice if you don’t have to sac-
rifice anything yourself. Trump may
have responded ‘‘no’’ all five times to
his Nation’s calling him to duty, but
our troops respond with a salute, and
time after time, they report for duty
every single time. One, two, three,
four—I know of troops who have done
eight deployments. It is much easier to
ignore the everyday realities of war
from inside the security of the White
House, but it is nearly impossible if
you have been outside the wire your-
self.
So, with the drums of war beating
loudly again, I am standing here, under
the great Capitol dome, trying to keep
my promise to hold the Members of
this body accountable—trying to make
sure we do our jobs. Our troops do their
jobs every single day. Because the
costs of war in both dollars and cents
and human lives will no longer just be
theoretical if we keep to the path aides
like Bolton are pursuing, our homeland
will be in more danger; more wounded
warriors will be sent to Walter Reed;
and more fallen heroes will be laid to
rest at Arlington.
Even if you are OK with that, the
fact is, the President does not have the
authority to declare war; only Con-
gress has that power. We are the ones
tasked with deciding when and how we
send Americans into combat. We are
the ones the Constitution has charged
with that most solemn duty, not Don-
ald Trump and certainly not unelected
warmongers like Bolton. Lately,
though, the White House has acted as if
article I simply doesn’t exist. Trump
has acted as if he can just usurp his
power from the legislative branch as
though obeying the Constitution is op-
tional. Well, it is not.
This should not be a partisan issue.
No matter if you are a factory worker
who pulls double shifts or the Presi-
dent of the United States, no one is
above the law. No matter if you strug-
gle to pay rent or your name is plas-
tered in gold on the front of a building
on Fifth Avenue, no one can overrule
the Constitution. Our troops should
never ever be chess pieces in some
reckless ideological game. Now, in the
midst of the very week that is dedi-
cated to Congress’s evading next year’s
defense funding, it is past time for Con-
gress to reclaim that solemn responsi-
bility—that sacred responsibility—of
declaring war.
For too long, too many on the Hill
have shrugged off that most solemn
duty. Scared of the political risks in
staring down election days, Congress
has shirked its constitutional responsi-
bility to our troops in its refusal to
take up any new authorizations for use
of military force. For decades, Con-
gress has ceded its authority to the
White House by failing to act. It has
handed Presidents from both parties
the ability to command our military
without having clear authorization, ef-
fectively cutting the people’s elected
Representatives out of the war-making
process entirely.
Enough. Enough of being so worried
about political consequences that we
fail to do our own jobs even as we ex-
pect our troops to do theirs every
damned day without complaint. We
need to do better by our servicemem-
bers. We owe it to them to honor their
sacrifices. Part of that means ensuring
that no American sheds blood in a war
that Congress has not authorized. De-
spite what some in the administration
say, there is just no way that the
AUMF that passed in order to go after
the perpetrators of 9/11 can justify
military action against Iran nearly two
decades later and send our troops over-
seas who may not have even been alive
when that AUMF was voted on.
If Trump and company want to go to
war, they must bring their case to Con-
gress and give the American people a
say through their elected Representa-
tives. They must respect our service-
members enough to provide and prove
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.015 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4486 June 25, 2019
why war with Iran is worth turning
more moms and dads into Gold Star
parents, and they must testify about
what the end state in Iran actually
needs to look like. Then, when their
case has been made and when
Congress’s debate is done, we in this
body should vote. It is our duty. It is
the least we can do for those who are
willing to safeguard our democracy—
our way of life, our Constitution—even
if it means laying down their lives.
In the days ahead, vigilance is key.
We can’t simply believe the people who
try to convince us that, in order to sup-
port our troops, we need to pass the
NDAA as soon as possible. As a former
unit commander, I know this is not
true. The best thing we can do for our
servicemembers is to make sure they
know their actions are legally justified
by their government. If that takes a
week or two or three, then it is worth
the discussion.
If the vote to authorize military
force then passes, whenever that is, I
will be the first person to volunteer to
deploy. I will be ready to pack my ruck
and dust off my uniform. I may no
longer have legs, but I can man a
truck. I can take on the grunt work or
do whatever else it takes to uphold
that oath to which all servicemembers
and veterans have sworn—to, no mat-
ter what, protect and defend this Na-
tion we love.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I just
want to make one comment. I know
that somehow it is popular to say de-
meaning things about our President
and John Bolton.
I can remember the years that John
Bolton was with the United Nations,
representing the United States, and he
did just such an incredible job. He is
one that really has all the talent you
could have in the background. He cer-
tainly knows more about defense than
anyone else I know in this administra-
tion.
One of the proudest moments I had of
this President was when he did away
with that thing that John Kerry had
during the last administration. They
are always referring to our coddling
the Iranians in the media.
I happened to be with Netanyahu
when the President got us out of the
arrangement with Iran, where we gave
them—what—$1.7 billion to do any-
thing they want to with, and they had
to admit they would be promoting ter-
rorism with the money we gave back to
them. It was an absolute disaster.
Anyway, there is something about
this President—in spite of the fact that
right now we have the best economy we
have had in my lifetime, and right now
we have a type of full employment na-
tionwide, and minority employment,
we have never had anything at all like
we are having right now. It is the re-
sult of two things this President did,
and he did them with the help of the
Republicans. We all lined up and helped
him with this. It was reducing the mar-
ginal rate.
Reducing the marginal rate to in-
crease the revenue coming into the
United States is something we have
known for a long time. It is not a Re-
publican idea. That was John Kennedy.
John Kennedy came up with the idea
that we want to go ahead and increase
revenue. At that time, he said, and his
words were: We need more revenue for
the Great Society programs, and the
best way to increase revenue is to re-
duce marginal rates, and it worked.
Unfortunately, John Kennedy died
right after that and couldn’t see the
product of his efforts. Then, after that,
of course, Ronald Reagan did the same
thing, and it had the same effect on the
economy.
Then, when this President did it, we
knew it would have that effect, but he
did one more thing that they didn’t,
and that was he recommended, yes, you
could increase the economy by reduc-
ing marginal rates, but the other way
to do it is to reduce the onerous regula-
tions that we got during the Obama ad-
ministration.
During that administration, that is
the biggest problem we had. People
were leaving the country to go to
places they could find energy. There
was a war on fossil fuels—fossil fuels:
oil, gas, and coal—and he ended that
war. As a result of that, just in my
State of Oklahoma, for example, our
exports on crude have gone up 251 per-
cent since that time.
Anyway, he also is rebuilding the
military. Look what happened to the
military back during the Obama ad-
ministration. If you look at just the
last 5 years of the Obama administra-
tion, he knocked down the amount of
money that went into our military by
25 percent just in 5 years. That has
never happened before.
Of course, all of that is over with
now. We have a President who is a
strong supporter. I will be talking
about that later. It is just that the
American people know better when
they hear all the name-calling of this
President. They don’t like his style.
Sure, I shudder a little bit when I hear
a tweet coming, but when you stop and
think about what he has been able to
accomplish with his tweets, at least
now people know there is another side.
There is a truth out there that you can
have access to instead of depending on
just the liberal media.
The main thing I want to encourage
is—we have people scheduled starting
right after lunchtime—that Members
come down and talk about their
amendments. It is true we knew we
were going to have some problems. We
suspected we were going to have some
problems getting to amendments be-
cause our rules provide that one Sen-
ator can stop the amendment process.
An amendment can’t come to the floor
except by unanimous consent, and so
they objected to unanimous consent
until certain things can happen. Well, I
don’t criticize anyone, but we knew,
because of that, that we were not going
to be able to really get a lot of amend-
ments on the floor for debate, and so
we did it—in fact, we did it yesterday:
ninety-three amendments yesterday.
Now, those 93 were from—equally di-
vided—Democrats and Republicans. I
have a list here, and they are going to
be coming down to the floor, but I want
to encourage our Members to come
down because people have to know this
is a good bill—this Defense authoriza-
tion bill. We know it is going to pass.
It has passed for 53 years, and so we
know it is going to pass, but we also
know it is the most important bill of
the year. It is the one that takes care
of our military that is fighting for our
country.
So we have all of these amendments,
and I encourage any of the Members,
Democrats or Republicans, who are not
scheduled to come down and talk this
afternoon, to call up. We have lots of
time open. We want to encourage them
to do it. We want to make sure that
not just the Members of this body and
the other body across the Capitol but
also the American people know we are
doing something really great in terms
of the Defense authorization bill. So I
encourage you to call and come down
to the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the first-de-
gree filling deadline for the cloture mo-
tions filed during yesterday’s session of
the Senate be at 2:30 p.m. today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, later
today we will hopefully be taking up
legislation to address the humani-
tarian crisis along our southern border.
This year, 2019, has seen an over-
whelming flood of migrants. So far this
fiscal year, roughly 600,000 individuals
have been apprehended at our southern
border—600,000. That is approximately
200,000 more people than were appre-
hended during fiscal year 2018, and we
still have more than 3 months to go.
Agencies that deal with the situation
on the border are stretched to the
breaking point. Shelters are over-
loaded, and providing adequate medical
care is becoming more and more dif-
ficult. The Department of Homeland
Security has been forced to pull nearly
1,000 Border Patrol officers from other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.016 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4487
June 25, 2019
areas to assist with the surge of mi-
grants. The Department of Health and
Human Services, which is tasked with
caring for unaccompanied children who
cross the border, will be out of money
to care for these children by early
July. That means that caregivers for
these children would have to work
without pay, and private organizations
with Federal grants to care for these
children would go without their fund-
ing.
The President sent over an emer-
gency funding request to address this
humanitarian crisis more than 7 weeks
ago, and Republicans were ready to
take it up immediately. But the Demo-
crat-controlled House was not inter-
ested. Why? Because the President was
the one doing the asking.
House Democrats’ No. 1 priority is
obstructing the President. It doesn’t
matter if he is asking for desperately
needed funds to address a humani-
tarian crisis. Democrats aren’t inter-
ested.
When it became clear the House was
not serious about addressing this cri-
sis, the Senate decided to move for-
ward, and last week the Senate Appro-
priations Committee approved an over-
whelmingly bipartisan measure to pro-
vide desperately needed resources for
the southern border.
Now the House is seeking to take up
a supplemental of its own. This should
be good news, but, unfortunately, the
House bill is just another exercise in
partisanship. The House is attempting
to take up a bill that the President
won’t sign, as House leaders have
known from the beginning. While I sup-
pose we should be glad the House is at
least acknowledging the situation at
the border now, passing partisan legis-
lation that will go nowhere in the Sen-
ate or with the President is no help.
The Senate has come together and
will pass a real bipartisan measure
that the President is expected to sign.
The House should drop the partisan
posturing and obstruction and pass the
Senate bill so that we can get these
desperately needed funds to the south-
ern border.
AGRICULTURE
Mr. President, I have been to the
floor several times in recent weeks to
talk about the challenges facing our
agriculture producers.
While the economy as a whole con-
tinues to thrive, our Nation’s farmers
and ranchers are struggling. Thanks to
natural disasters, protracted trade dis-
putes, and several years of low com-
modity prices, farmers and ranchers
have had a tough few years.
As the senior Senator from South
Dakota, I am privileged to represent
thousands of farmers and ranchers here
in the Senate, and addressing their
needs and getting the ag economy
going again are big priorities of mine.
That is why I spend a lot of time talk-
ing to the Department of Agriculture
about ways we can support the agri-
culture community, and I am very
pleased that we have one big victory to
celebrate this week—the Department
of Agriculture’s adjustment of the
haying and grazing date for cover crops
planted on prevent plant acres.
Farmers and ranchers throughout the
Midwest are currently facing the fall-
out from severe winter storms, heavy
rainfall, bomb cyclones, and spring
flooding. Planting is behind schedule,
and some farmers’ fields are so flooded
that they won’t be able to plant corn
and soybeans at all this year. As a re-
sult, many farmers will be forced to
plant quick-growing cover crops on
their prevent plant acres for feed and
grazing once their fields finally dry out
and to protect the soil from erosion.
But before last week’s Agriculture
Department decision, farmers in North-
ern States like South Dakota faced a
problem. The Department of Agri-
culture had set November 1 as the first
date on which farmers could harvest
cover crops planted on prevent plant
acres for feed or use them for pasture
without having their crop insurance in-
demnity reduced.
Farmers who hayed or grazed before
this date faced a reduction in their pre-
vent plant indemnity payments—those
crop insurance payments designed to
help them cover their income loss when
fields can’t be planted due to flooding
or other issues.
November 1 is generally a pretty rea-
sonable date for farmers in southern
States. But for farmers in Northern
States like South Dakota, November 1
is too late for harvesting, thanks to
killing frost and the risk of late fall
and early winter storms, and it is too
late to maximize the use of cover crops
for pasture, since a killing frost is lia-
ble to flatten cover crops before they
are grazed.
I heard from a lot of farmers about
this November 1 date and the dilemma
they were facing about whether to
plant cover crops that they might not
be able to harvest or graze. So begin-
ning in early May, my office ap-
proached the Department of Agri-
culture about changing the November 1
date.
I then led a bipartisan group of Sen-
ate Agriculture Committee members in
sending a letter to the Department,
making our case for farmers. Then, I
followed the letter with a request for a
face-to-face meeting with top Agri-
culture Department officials so that I
could explain in person the challenges
farmers were facing.
A week and a half ago, USDA Deputy
Secretary Steve Censky and USDA
Under Secretary Bill Northey came to
my office. During our meeting, I em-
phasized that not only did the date
need to be changed, but it needed to be
changed now so farmers could make
plans to seed cover crops. The decision
about whether to plant a cover crop is
a time-sensitive decision, and farmers
were rapidly running out of time to
make that call.
One week after our meeting, the De-
partment of Agriculture announced
that it would move up the November 1
date for this year by 2 months, to Sep-
tember 1—a significant amount of time
that will enable a lot of South Dakota
farmers to plant cover crops without
worrying about whether they will be
able to successfully harvest or graze
them.
I met with South Dakota farmers in
Aberdeen, SD, on Friday, and they
were very happy about the Department
of Agriculture’s decision. Cover crops
are a win-win. They are good for the
environment because they prevent soil
erosion, which can pollute streams and
rivers and worsen flooding, and they
are good for farmers because they im-
prove soil health, protect soil from ero-
sion, and can provide an important
source of feed. That second benefit is
particularly important for farmers
right now.
Due to last year’s severe and lengthy
winter, feed supplies disappeared, leav-
ing no reserves. Cornstalks, a source of
grazing and bedding, will be in short
supply this year, and so will the supply
of alfalfa due to winterkill. Cover crops
will be crucial to alleviating this feed
shortage.
I am currently working with the De-
partment of Agriculture to ensure that
farmers have flexibility to use existing
supplies of available seed for cover
crops, and I will be encouraging the
Agriculture Department to release
Conservation Reserve Program acres
for emergency haying and grazing this
year to further address the feed short-
age.
I am very pleased that the Depart-
ment of Agriculture heard the concerns
we were expressing and moved the No-
vember 1 haying and grazing date up to
September 1 for this year.
South Dakota farmers and ranchers
can rest assured that I will continue to
share the challenges they are facing
with the Agriculture Department, and
I will continue to do everything I can
here in Washington to support our Na-
tion’s farmers and ranchers and to get
our agriculture economy back on its
feet.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECESS
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that, pursuant to the
order in place, we recess.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, the Senate stands in recess.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:29 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and was reas-
sembled when called to order by the
Presiding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.018 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4488 June 25, 2019
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2020—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
S. 1790
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, yes-
terday, the Senate overwhelmingly
voted to proceed to the National De-
fense Authorization Act by a vote of 86
to 6. That is about as overwhelming a
bipartisan vote as we have had lately,
and it is for good reason. This bill rep-
resents one of our most fundamental
duties as the U.S. Congress, which is to
authorize military expenditures and to
provide our men and women in uniform
with the resources they need in order
to protect the American people.
The Defense authorization bill would
authorize funding for the Department
of Defense to carry out its most vital
missions, as well as support our alli-
ances around the world and improve
the quality of life for our servicemem-
bers, including the largest pay raise in
a decade. All of us have long under-
stood the importance of passing this
legislation each year, which is why for
the past 58 years we have passed the
Defense authorization bill each of
those years without delay. The bill, of
course, has gained broad bipartisan
support in the Armed Services Com-
mittee and in the first procedural vote
yesterday evening, but that doesn’t
mean that our colleagues across the
aisle aren’t eyeing it as the latest tar-
get for their obstructionist tactics.
We are hearing that our Democratic
friends are actually threatening to fili-
buster this legislation in an attempt to
force a vote on Iran, but this is really
just a subterfuge. I don’t buy it. In re-
ality, the Democratic leader has urged
the majority leader not to hold a vote
on the Defense authorization bill this
week because so many of his Members
are running for President and need to
be at the debate in Miami. He said the
Senate should wait to have the vote
until the full body is present. He said
there is no rush to complete the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act. Just
to translate, the minority leader wants
the rest of us to stop working so that
the Democrat Senators who are run-
ning for President can prepare for the
debate in Miami instead of being here
in Washington and doing their job. In-
stead of doing that, they want to audi-
tion for their next job—or so they
hope. Well, the minority leader thinks
we should delay giving our military
families a pay raise so his Members can
campaign for President. That is one of
the more galling things I have ever
heard proposed across the aisle.
The demand for a vote in relation to
Iran is a smokescreen. It is a tactic
being used to cover up for their col-
leagues who don’t want to miss yet an-
other vote. In the first 6 months of this
year alone, Senate Democrats have
played politics with nominees for im-
portant positions throughout the Fed-
eral Government and with border secu-
rity funding in the midst of a humani-
tarian and security crisis that is occur-
ring at the border. They dragged their
feet on Middle East policy bills and
now, apparently, on the National De-
fense Authorization Act.
Our constituents sent us here to
Washington to cast votes—yes or no—
on bills that shape our country and, in
this case, strengthen our Nation’s mili-
tary. We should not tolerate the polit-
ical ambitions of some of our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle to
take precedence over the men and
women who serve us in the military.
Their priorities may be elsewhere, but
the rest of us are not buying it. It is
appalling, and we will not let it hap-
pen.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, I recently heard from one of my
constituents in San Antonio about her
growing concern with rising drug
prices. She wrote to me:
I personally haven’t had to make the
choice yet between making my mortgage or
getting a drug I need or my family needs, but
I know the day is coming. It’s not a matter
of if it will happen, but when for all of us in
America.
She is certainly not alone. Countless
Texans have conveyed to me their con-
cerns about rising drug costs, and one
man even told me that he and his wife
feel like their health is being held ran-
som. Across the country more and
more people are struggling to pay their
out-of-pocket costs for their prescrip-
tion drugs and are weighing financial
decisions that no family should be
forced to make.
Now, the good news is there is bipar-
tisan agreement here in Congress—
somewhat of a rarity these days—that
something must be done to reel in
these skyrocketing costs and to pro-
tect patients who are being taken ad-
vantage of by some pharmaceutical
companies. We have spent a lot of time
looking at this issue on both the Judi-
ciary Committee and the Finance Com-
mittee, on which I sit, as well as the
HELP Committee, which is also work-
ing on legislation to lower out-of-pock-
et healthcare costs.
When it comes to drug prices, we
know that the high cost frequently is
not the result of the necessary sunk
cost for research and development of
an innovative drug or a labor-intensive
production process or scarce supply.
The high cost frequently is because
major players in the healthcare indus-
try are driving up prices to increase
their bottom line.
Later this week, the Judiciary Com-
mittee will hold a markup to consider
some of the proposals by members of
the committee to address this kind of
behavior. One of the bills we will con-
sider was introduced by Senators
GRASSLEY and CANTWELL. It would re-
quire the Federal Trade Commission to
look at the role of pharmacy benefit
managers, which play an important—
albeit an elusive part—in the pharma-
ceutical supply chain.
Another bill we will be reviewing has
been introduced by Senators KLO-
BUCHAR and GRASSLEY and would com-
bat branded pharmaceutical compa-
nies’ ability to interfere with the regu-
latory approval of generic competitors.
I am glad we will also have a chance
to consider a bill I introduced with my
colleague Senator BLUMENTHAL from
Connecticut called the Affordable Pre-
scriptions for Patients Act. That bill
takes aim at two practices often de-
ployed by pharmaceutical companies
to crowd out competition and protect
their bottom line. Now, this bill, im-
portantly, will not stymie innovation,
and it will not punish those who right-
fully gained exclusive production
rights for a drug. That is what our pat-
ent system is designed to do. Those are
two false arguments being pushed by
opponents to my bill, though, and, be-
lieve me, there are many. The bill is
designed, rather, to stop the bad actors
who abuse our laws and effectively cre-
ate a monopoly. Most drug companies
don’t fall into that category, but some
definitely do.
First, the bill targets a practice
called product hopping. When a com-
pany is about to lose exclusivity of a
drug because their patent is going to
expire, they often develop some sort of
minor reformulation and then yank the
original product off the market. That
prevents generic competitors from en-
tering the market. One example was
the drug Namenda, which is used by pa-
tients with Alzheimer’s. Near the end
of the exclusivity period, the manufac-
turer switched from a twice daily drug
to a once daily drug. That move pre-
vented pharmacists from being able to
switch patients to a lower cost generic
and gave the company an unprece-
dented 14 additional years of exclu-
sivity. Now, don’t get me wrong. There
are often legitimate changes that war-
rant a new patent, but too frequently
we are seeing this deployed as a strat-
egy to box out generic competition.
By defining product hopping as anti-
competitive behavior, the Federal
Trade Commission would be able to
take action against those who engage
in this practice. It is an important way
to prevent companies from gaming the
patent system and patients from car-
rying the cost of that corporate greed.
Our country thankfully is the leader
in pharmaceutical innovation. None of
us wants to change that, and that is
partly because we offer robust protec-
tions for intellectual property. Sadly,
though, some companies are taking ad-
vantage of those innovation protec-
tions in order to maintain their mo-
nopoly as long as possible. Our bill
would target this practice, known as
patent thicketing, by limiting patents
companies can use to keep their com-
petitors away. One famous example is
the drug HUMIRA, which, as I under-
stand, is the most commonly pre-
scribed drug in the world. It is used to
treat arthritis and a number of other
conditions. AbbVie, the manufacturer
of HUMIRA, has 136 patents on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.021 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4489
June 25, 2019
drug and 247 patent applications. This
drug has been available now for more
than 15 years. This type of behavior
makes it difficult for biosimilar manu-
facturers to bring a new product to
market to compete with that drug and
thus bring down the price for con-
sumers.
In the case of HUMIRA, multiple
biosimilars have been FDA-approved
and available since last year, but the
vast array of patents obtained by
AbbVie prevent any competition from
entering the market until 2023. This ar-
tificial structuring delays market
entry years past the exclusivity period
the law originally intended to grant.
While the patent on the actual drug
formula may have expired, there are
still, in this case, hundreds of other
patents that have to be sorted through.
Our legislation would seek to end
patent gaming that leads to high cost
for consumers. Companies use these
patents to extend litigation against
would-be competitors. That process is
lengthy, complex, and expensive. So by
limiting the number of patents these
companies can use and preventing this
sort of gamesmanship, our bill would
simplify the litigation process so com-
panies are spending less time in the
courtroom and, hopefully, more time in
the laboratories, innovating new dis-
ease-curing, life-extending drugs. Com-
petitors would be able to resolve patent
issues faster and bring their drugs to
market sooner. Better competition,
which is our goal, creates a better
product at a lower price for patients.
What my bill and those that we will
be considering in the Judiciary Com-
mittee this week have in common is
that they seek to prevent bad actors
from gaming the system to exploit pa-
tients for profit. Since Senator
BLUMENTHAL and I introduced this bill,
we have received valuable feedback
from our colleagues in the Senate, as
well as from folks at the Federal Trade
Commission, the Patent and Trade-
mark Office, the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, and many stakeholders.
Their input has helped us make adjust-
ments to ensure our bill will effec-
tively carry out our goal, which is to
reduce drug prices without hampering
innovation or creating overly burden-
some regulations. We are finalizing our
revised bill, and we will introduce it
soon.
The Affordable Prescriptions for Pa-
tients Act will stop pharmaceutical
companies from deploying defensive
strategies to monopolize prescription
drug patents and ensure that our
healthcare system works for, not
against, the American people.
I appreciate our colleagues in the
Senate, especially Chairman ALEX-
ANDER of the Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions Committee; Chairman
GRASSLEY, who is chairman of the Fi-
nance Committee; and Chairman GRA-
HAM, who is chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, who continue to work with
us to increase competition and bring
down healthcare costs for patients
across the country. I look forward to
our markup on these bills later this
week.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
order of the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 1247
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
Rules Committee be discharged from
further consideration of S. 1247; that
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration; that the bill be consid-
ered read a third time and passed; and
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Mississippi.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. An objec-
tion is heard.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, the reason for this request for
unanimous consent is very simply that
this legislation is based on a straight-
forward, commonly accepted idea: If
you see something, say something.
The Duty to Report Act, this meas-
ure, would require campaigns, can-
didates, and family members to imme-
diately report to the FBI and the Fed-
eral Election Commission any offers of
illegal foreign assistance. It is simply a
duty to report illegality. It codifies
into law what is already a moral duty,
a patriotic duty, and a matter of basic
common sense.
It is already illegal to accept foreign
assistance during a campaign. It is al-
ready illegal to solicit foreign assist-
ance during a campaign. All this bill
does is to require campaigns and indi-
viduals to report those illegal foreign
assistance offers or solicitations di-
rectly to the FBI.
I never thought—and few would have
guessed—that there is a need for this
kind of legislative mandate to do what
is a patriotic and a moral duty. With
the 2020 election on the horizon, we
need to do everything we can to safe-
guard the integrity of our election.
The President has made remarks
that are truly historically astonishing.
He made those remarks just recently,
which highlighted his own moral and
patriotic depravity. He was asked
whether he would accept help in 2020
from foreign governments or foreign
nationals, and he simply said: ‘‘I’d take
it.’’
That is very much reminiscent of
what his son said when he was offered
assistance from Russian agents with
dirt on Hillary Clinton. He said, ‘‘I love
it.’’ That kind of receptivity to ille-
gality is not only un-American, it
ought to be explicitly illegal, and all of
us in this Chamber would reject it, I
am sure. In fact, many of my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
were severely critical of President
Trump’s remarks.
His remarks are also reminiscent of
what his son-in-law, Jared Kushner,
said in a television interview—that he
didn’t know whether he would contact
the FBI in that same kind of situation,
again, that Donald junior encountered
with offers of assistance from Russian
agents. He didn’t know whether he
would. It is a hypothetical.
Well, we really know what both the
President and Jared Kushner, as well
as his son Donald junior think about
this issue. According to the Mueller re-
port, when a Kremlin-linked indi-
vidual, Dimitri Simes, offered to pro-
vide Kushner with damaging informa-
tion on Hillary Clinton, he took the
meeting. That is not the only example.
When George Papadopoulos, the Trump
foreign policy campaign staffer, con-
victed on a Federal charge of lying to
the FBI, was told by a Maltese pro-
fessor that the Russians had dirt on
Hillary Clinton in the form of thou-
sands of emails and were willing to pro-
vide them to the Trump campaign,
what did he do? Rather than go to the
FBI, he eagerly alerted others on the
campaign.
Just last week, Hope Hicks, Trump’s
Communications Director for a while,
was interviewed by the House Judici-
ary Committee. She said that she
‘‘knew that the President’s statement
was troubling’’—in her words, ‘‘knew
that the President’s statement was
troubling’’ and ‘‘understood the Presi-
dent to be serious’’ when he made those
remarks.
The President’s remarks should
alarm every American and everyone in
the law enforcement community. Our
legislative efforts stem from this basic
principle. The American people—not
Russia, not China, and no one else—
should decide who the leaders of our
country are and the direction our de-
mocracy should go.
Eighty percent of the American peo-
ple across the political spectrum—or
more—support this legislation—Repub-
licans, Democrats, and Independents.
All we are doing is asking that MITCH
MCCONNELL avoid blocking this impor-
tant legislation and allow a vote on the
Senate floor. This bill has 19 cospon-
sors in the Senate, including Senators
WHITEHOUSE, BOOKER, HARRIS, WARREN,
GILLIBRAND, KLOBUCHAR, SANDERS,
HEINRICH, UDALL, MARKEY, LEAHY,
MURRAY, CASEY, SMITH, CARDIN, MUR-
PHY, WYDEN, MERKLEY, and HIRONO. It
has been introduced in the House by
Congressman ERIC SWALWELL, and it
now has 30 cosponsors there, including
the chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, JERRY NADLER.
I invite my Republican colleagues to
support me in passing this legislation.
Republicans ought to stand up for the
rule of law. They ought to speak out
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.023 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4490 June 25, 2019
for our national security. They should
refuse to tolerate these kinds of words
and behavior from an American Com-
mander in Chief.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
S. 1790
Mr. CRAMER. Madam President, I
rise today to emphasize the importance
of this year’s National Defense Author-
ization Act—both why it is important
and what we must accomplish this
week while we are still here.
The primary obligation of Congress is
to provide for the common defense. For
the past 57, 58-plus years, Congress has
met this obligation primarily through
passage of the NDAA. With this bipar-
tisan legislation, we have provided our
Armed Forces the resources and au-
thorities they need to defend our coun-
try. This bill keeps America on track
by confronting the readiness crisis in
our military branches.
I am the first North Dakotan ever to
serve on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, and I consider this a great
honor. North Dakota is home to two
Air Force bases: Minot, which is home
to two of the three legs of the nuclear
triad, the B–52 bombers and Minute-
man ICBM missiles; and one in Grand
Forks, home to the RQ–4 Global Hawk
mission and, effective in just a few
days, on Friday, the 319th Reconnais-
sance Wing.
We are also home to multiple Army
and Air National Guard units and mis-
sions, ranging from construction and
combat engineers to security forces, to
ISR and launch and recovery Reaper
operations. Our Army National Guard,
in fact, has an air defense artillery
regiment that regularly protects us
right here in the Capital region as part
of Operation Noble Eagle.
Our military community is a
foundational element to our State as it
is to many States. To us, the NDAA is
not just arbitrary funding numbers for
abstract aircraft and equipment. This
legislation supports those in my State
and across the country who defend our
Nation at home and around the world.
We are honored by the outsized role
our patriots play in defense of our Na-
tion and the cause of liberty. Our com-
mitment to them and their families
must be clear. When they are called
into action, they will have every re-
source they need to carry out success-
ful missions.
I want to address a fundamental as-
pect to this week’s debate. Apparently,
there are some in this body who would
rather bypass budget negotiations and
pass a continuing resolution. There are
others who want to delay passage of
this important priority until later in
the year.
We cannot simply kick this can down
the road. Passing a CR is handing our
military community months of uncer-
tainty and anxiety and could nullify
much of the good work that we are
doing here today and this week, such
as improving the livelihoods of our
servicemembers. Delaying passage to
accommodate the political ambitions
of a few of our Democratic colleagues
is simply unacceptable and should be
dismissed as quickly as it was sug-
gested.
Those who offer their lives in service
to our country represent the best of
what America has to offer. What they
give us, we can never repay, but we can
do our best to help as they serve and
transition back to civilian life.
For example, this NDAA seeks to im-
prove the livelihood of our volunteer
military force with benefits such as the
largest pay increase in over a decade.
It also provides personal assistance
for military spouses looking for work
or hoping to retain their job after
being relocated. We also included lan-
guage that encourages the Air National
Guard to provide tuition assistance.
To keep us safe from foreign adver-
saries, this year’s NDAA bolsters our
nuclear triad with an enhanced com-
mitment to modernization—a move I
firmly support. While recently visiting
the Minot Air Force Base, I witnessed
the reality the base’s airmen face every
day. Our brave men and women in uni-
form feel the weight of the world on
their shoulders. Yet they remain vigi-
lant and alert—and most of the time
quite cheerful, I might add.
Deterrence works. It has always
worked. Democratic and Republican
administrations over the last several
decades have supported this. Elimi-
nating a leg of the deterrence does not
eliminate the threat. The world does
not become a safe place when we re-
move that which keeps us safe.
If we defied history and the military
community by unilaterally weakening
our superior arsenal, as some in the
House have proposed, we would be plac-
ing the fate of the world in the hands
of our adversaries.
That is not to say the bill shouldn’t
be amended. In fact, I want to bring at-
tention to a matter that wasn’t in-
cluded that I believe should be. I sub-
mitted an amendment, along with a
stand-alone bill, that honors the Lost
74—the 74 Vietnam veterans who died
in the sinking of the USS Frank E.
Evans, whose names are not included
on the Vietnam Memorial Wall. This
year marks 50 years since they were
killed off the coast of Vietnam while
serving our Nation.
Congress passed this legislation last
year in the House NDAA, but it failed
to be added in conference. This year, I
moved from the House to the Senate,
and so did this bill. It has received
overwhelming, bipartisan support from
my colleagues here and from constitu-
ents across the country; however, the
bureaucrats in Washington remain
firmly opposed. It is inexplicable to me
that bureaucrats could determine that
these sailors’ ultimate sacrifice is un-
worthy of being memorialized simply
because they were on the wrong side of
an arbitrary line. Their disregard for
these veterans has been a source of tre-
mendous frustration to me throughout
this process. I have had my own mo-
tives questioned. I have been told it
would require too much ‘‘work’’ to
change the memorial. I have even
heard fears expressed of precedent
being changed, as if finding more ways
to honor the fallen and forgotten would
somehow set a bad precedent for the fu-
ture. These excuses are insufficient.
The Lost 74 and the families they left
behind deserve better than this, and I
have no plans to quit this fight for
them anytime soon.
But this and other possible inclusions
aside, this NDAA contains important
national security efforts, including the
establishment of the U.S. Space Force.
The Senate Armed Services Committee
came up with a bipartisan proposal
that reduces redundancy in space pro-
grams, defines clear leadership on
space at the upper echelons of our mili-
tary, and guarantees dedicated service-
members to the space domain. I thank
my colleagues for seeing the adminis-
tration’s vision and working in a bipar-
tisan fashion to improve it.
I led two important amendments to
the Space Force proposal that were
adopted in the committee markup. The
first requires that the commander of
the Space Force report directly to the
Secretary of the Air Force after the
first year of establishment. The second
is that the commander of the Space
Force become a permanent member of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, also after the
first year of establishment. Both were
supported by the Department of De-
fense and should be maintained
through conference negotiations.
The first provision—reporting di-
rectly to the Secretary—ensures that
the Space Force commander has direct
access to the top civilian leadership of
the Air Force, just like the Navy-Ma-
rine Corps model. The Commandant of
the Marine Corps does not report to the
Chief of Naval Operations, and neither
should the Space Force commander be
forced to report to the Air Force Chief
of Staff.
Reporting to the Secretary will give
our space forces an equal voice in the
Air Force’s budget development proc-
ess. We all know that real authority in
the Pentagon is budget authority, and
unless the Space Force has a true voice
in the budget process, they will never
be prioritized appropriately.
When testifying before the Senate
Armed Services Committee, Strategic
Command commander and vice chair-
man nominee General Hyten spoke to
the challenges of the Air Force Chief of
Staff making space a priority, stating:
We have to have somebody in the Pentagon
that focuses their total attention on space
all the time. I have known every chief of
staff of the Air Force for the last 20 or 30
years, and they’ve all carried space effec-
tively into the tank. They’ve all cared about
space. But it is a secondary issue.
Rather than automatically rel-
egating space to a secondary issue, the
Space Force commander should follow
the Marine Corps model and report di-
rectly to the Secretary of the Air
Force.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.024 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4491
June 25, 2019
In addition, the Space Force com-
mander should be a statutory member
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Joint
Chiefs, of course, are the primary mili-
tary advisers to the President. The
President makes strategic decisions on
the composition and use of our na-
tional security resources based on the
counsel received from the Joint Chiefs
of Staff. Without a separate, equal
voice at the table, the Space Force
commander will inevitably be
marginalized from critical decision-
making and resource allocation proc-
esses.
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs,
General Dunford, reiterated this point
when he said that ‘‘the key is to have
individuals who are singularly focused
on space and make sure we incorporate
that perspective, that very healthy
perspective, into the outcome, which is
a joint force that can fight.’’ General
Dunford is exactly right. The Space
Force commander should have a seat
on the Joint Chiefs and bring that sin-
gular focus of space to the table.
I understand the concerns sur-
rounding these amendments, and I
agree with my colleagues that we
should minimize overhead and
unneeded bureaucracy, which is why
both of my amendments do not take ef-
fect for a year, and the language spe-
cifically bars any new staff or addi-
tional billets in the interim.
Last week, the ranking member of
the committee cited CBO estimates on
the potential costs of these amend-
ments. I would like to quote the same
CBO report for additional context and
reference. The CBO report says that
‘‘the estimates in this report are for il-
lustrative policy options; they do not
represent cost estimates for any par-
ticular piece of legislation.’’
With that in mind, I would ask the
Department of Defense to take these
concerns seriously and use the 1 year
to craft and present a plan to appro-
priately implement these two provi-
sions.
My colleagues’ concerns are not un-
warranted; however, it would be poor
policy to hamstring the Space Force
from the beginning rather than set it
up for success.
It is worth noting that the House
NDAA establishes a Space Corps and
takes two concrete steps directly in
line with my amendments. The leader
of the Space Corps would report di-
rectly to the Secretary of the Air
Force and sit on the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, without the 1-year delay my
amendment would require. The House,
Senate, and Department of Defense are
largely in line with these two provi-
sions.
The idea of the Space Force will be-
come a reality with this year’s NDAA.
The establishment process will be in-
cremental and requires oversight, but
our first step must set the conditions
to ensure its success.
The importance of this NDAA is
clear. Passing it is vital to my State
and to our Nation. It supports our
troops, bolsters our nuclear deterrence,
and provides for the creation of a Space
Force capable of defending the next do-
main of military conflict. For these
and dozens of other reasons, I urge my
colleagues to support it and pass it
quickly to demonstrate our commit-
ment to our highest priority.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
The Senator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I
thought there would be people here
speaking. We are right now in consider-
ation of the most significant bill of the
year, the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act. It is not just the biggest bill
but the most significant one, and we
know it is going to pass. It has passed
for 59 years in a row, so obviously it is
going to pass. But the problem is that
we have many amendments to be dis-
cussed because yesterday alone, we
adopted 93 amendments, and they are
equally divided between Democrats and
Republicans.
I have invited and encouraged all the
Members who have amendments that
were on the list to come down to the
floor and talk about their amendments.
I have a list of those individuals who
have requested to be here in conjunc-
tion with that, and they are not down
here.
Let me just appeal to the Members—
Democrats and Republicans alike—to
come in and describe your amendments
and talk about this because we are
going to do everything we can to get
this bill passed this week.
I have to say, there is an effort right
now by the leader of the Democrats to
try to put this off because they want to
watch their friends run for President
on TV on Wednesday night and Thurs-
day night. To me, we have the most
important bill of the entire year. This
is something we have to pass because
of all the problems that come up. We
have housing, for example. The big
problem with privatization of housing
came up last February. All the solu-
tions are in this bill. They are taken
care of. Modernizing our nuclear mod-
ernization is in this bill. That is going
to be done, but it can’t be done until
the bill is passed and signed by the
President.
If we wait, as suggested, in order for
them to watch their friends on TV,
then this is going to put it off for a
week, and that is certainly going to
jeopardize the possibility of getting it
passed. There isn’t time.
If you look at the list of things which
the leader of the Senate articulated
just a short while ago, all these things
have to be done before the end of the
fiscal year. The end of the fiscal year is
looming out there. We don’t have that
many legislative days.
We have to do a budget. All these
things have to be done, so we cannot
jeopardize all of that by postponing
this for a week.
I encourage our Members to come
down and be heard and describe their
amendments.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I
rise to once again talk about the truly
obscene cost of prescription drugs and
the No. 1 thing we can do to lower
prices. It is spelled out right here: Let
Medicare negotiate. It is very simple.
Let Medicare negotiate to bring down
the cost of prescription drugs.
Prescription drug costs are a huge
issue for people, frankly, of all ages
who need medication in my State.
Whether I am talking to farmers in
Western Michigan, retirees in the
Upper Peninsula, working families in
Wayne County or Macomb County,
families are feeling the effects.
When you look at the numbers be-
tween 2008 and 2016, prices on the most
popular brand-name drugs went up over
208 percent. Just ask those farmers in
West Michigan and those working fam-
ilies in Macomb; their income did not
rise 208 percent.
Perhaps nobody has been hurt more
than our seniors who tend to take more
medications and live on fixed incomes.
In 2017 alone, the average price of
brand-name drugs that seniors often
take rose four times faster than the
rate of inflation. In 1 year, it rose fast-
er than the rate of inflation. Again, I
am absolutely certain that the vast
majority of the seniors in my State did
not see their incomes go up four times
faster than the rate of inflation. I can
tell you that seniors in the Upper Pe-
ninsula didn’t see their pensions or So-
cial Security checks increase that
much.
What do families do? What do seniors
do? We all know the stories. Some peo-
ple are forced to cut back on other
things like food and paying their bills.
Some folks cut their heart pills in half
or take their arthritis medication
every other day instead of every day—
which, by the way, is not OK to do.
Some families stop filling their pre-
scriptions altogether simply because
they can’t afford it. This is wrong.
I have always believed healthcare is a
basic human right, and that includes
prescription medications. How do we
lower the cost of prescriptions so fami-
lies can afford the medications they
need to get healthy and to stay
healthy? The No. 1 way to do that is to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jun 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.027 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4492 June 25, 2019
let Medicare negotiate. It is very
straightforward: Let Medicare nego-
tiate. The VA is allowed to negotiate
the price of prescription drugs, and the
VA saves 40 percent compared to Medi-
care. In fact, if Medicare paid the same
price as the VA, it could have saved
$14.4 billion on just 50 drugs if it paid
the same prices as the VA. It could
have $14.4 billion in savings if Medicare
could negotiate for seniors the way the
VA is able to negotiate for veterans.
So what is stopping us? Republicans
in Congress and pharma lobbyists are
standing in the way of getting this
done. In 2018, there were 1,451 lobbyists
for the pharmaceutical and health
product industry. That is almost 15
lobbyists for every 1 Member of the
Senate. Their job is to stop competi-
tion and keep prices high, and they are
doing a very good job.
Back in 2003, when Medicare Part D
was signed into law, they blocked
Medicare from harnessing the bar-
gaining power of 43 million American
seniors. Those 43 million American sen-
iors together could see negotiating
power, but it was blocked by language
that was put into Medicare Part D. Let
me just say that again. It is very sim-
ple. Take that language out and let
Medicare negotiate.
Sixteen years later, pharmaceutical
companies are still boosting their bot-
tom lines on the backs of our seniors.
As if putting that language in Medicare
Part D wasn’t enough, we constantly
see efforts to look for an advantage to
block competition, to do something to
protect prices, to keep prices high, and
they are at it again. The name-brand
industry that is a huge supporter of the
new trade agreement, NAFTA 2.0—
some say NAFTA 1.5, some people call
it the U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agree-
ment—but this deal with Canada and
America that has been put together
and negotiated by the administration
has something in it to protect the pric-
ing for Big Pharma. The provisions
could stop competitors from getting
cheaper generic versions of biologic
drugs on the market sooner. If you stop
the competition, you stop the ability
for generic, no-brand names. They are
the same drug most of the time but
just without a brand name on it. If you
stop that competition, even though
that competition brings down prices,
you can keep prices and profits high.
Biologics are some of the most expen-
sive drugs out there. For example,
Humira, the world’s top-selling pre-
scription drug, treats conditions in-
cluding Crohn’s disease and rheu-
matoid arthritis, and it can cost up to
$50,000 a year for one prescription drug.
How many people do you know who can
afford to pay $50,000 a year for their
medication for just one drug?
At least three companies have devel-
oped generic versions of the drug, but
they will not be available in the United
States until at least 2023. We have at
least three companies with a lower cost
generic version that could bring down
prices. They will not be available in
the United States until at least 2023.
Humira isn’t a new drug. It has been
around since 2002.
When we had a hearing in the Fi-
nance Committee—and I want to com-
mend our chairman for doing that and
bringing in the top drug company
CEOs—the CEO that puts Humira into
the marketplace indicated they have
over 130 different patents that protect
them from competition. Here we are, in
the middle of a trade agreement, where
they are wanting to put language in
concerning the length of patents in
order to protect their position.
By the way, shortly after the Presi-
dent signed the USMCA at the end of
last year, the drug companies decided
to begin 2019 with price increases on
more than 250 prescription drugs, in-
cluding Humira. So they feel more con-
fident their position is protected; there
is not going to be competition. So what
happens? They raise the prices again.
Pharmaceutical companies like to
argue that they need special give-
aways—like they got in Medicare Part
D and that they are trying to get in the
new U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agree-
ment—because they invest so much in
research and development. However, it
is also true that when given the oppor-
tunity to invest in research and devel-
opment, many companies chose, in-
stead, to put more money in the pock-
ets of CEOs and shareholders rather
than using the big tax cut they re-
ceived to put more into research and
development.
I am a huge supporter of research and
development. Most of the primary,
basic research is done by all of us as
taxpayers. In fact, last year, the 500
biggest U.S. companies spent $608 bil-
lion on research and development,
which is great. That might sound like
a lot, but they spent $806 billion buying
back their own stock to keep the prices
up on the stock. That also makes you
wonder why pharmaceutical companies
didn’t use their tax giveaway to reduce
the cost of prescription drugs.
The pricing of prescription drugs in
this country is the ultimate example of
a rigged system. It is time to come to-
gether and unrig it. That is what we
should be doing. Our job is to unrig the
system.
First, we need to allow Medicare to
harness the bargaining power of 43 mil-
lion American seniors. One recent poll
found that 92 percent of voters support
allowing Medicare to negotiate. Let
Medicare negotiate. That is 92 percent
of voters who believe in this.
Second, we need to prevent the phar-
maceutical companies from receiving
additional sweet deals that keep drug
costs high. I think it is about time we
make a deal that benefits Michigan
farmers and businesses and seniors and
working families. That should be our
focus. We should not be in a situation
where, time after time, there is special
treatment, protective language that
bars the pharmaceutical industry from
negotiating under Medicare or that al-
lows them to protect their patents
longer so they don’t have competition
from generic drugs to bring down
prices.
Let’s unrig this system and address
the highest driver, the biggest driver in
raising the costs of healthcare in this
country, which is the cost of prescrip-
tion drugs. We can do something about
that, and we need to do it soon.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I
come before you, first and foremost, to
thank Senator INHOFE for his great
leadership as the chairman of the Sen-
ate Armed Services Committee and a
special thanks to the staff who are
working very, very hard to process the
hundreds of amendments to the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act that
came out of the committee with broad
bipartisan support.
I am here to talk specifically about
some provisions that I think are pretty
important that actually started in the
Personnel Subcommittee. I chair the
Personnel Subcommittee for Senate
Armed Services. Early this year, we
heard of what I consider to be abso-
lutely unacceptable conditions in mili-
tary housing across the country. In
North Carolina—and, Madam Presi-
dent, in your great State of Ten-
nessee—we have bases, and we have
military housing. We have men and
women, many of them very young. Of-
tentimes the spouses are deployed, so
the family is back home taking care of
their children, taking care of their own
jobs, and living on the base.
About February, we got reports—and
these are not just one-off reports; these
are reports across the country of mold,
mildew, damage from storms, and all
kinds of conditions that I think in the
private sector you would find objec-
tionable. I think it is particularly ob-
jectionable when you are talking about
people whose families are with that
husband or wife who serve in the mili-
tary or serve in this country.
We decided to have a number of hear-
ings where we brought the private
housing providers into the Senate and
my Personnel Subcommittee and the
full committee to get an explanation.
Quite honestly, there wasn’t a good ex-
planation.
Back in 1996, the Federal Govern-
ment decided to get out of the housing
business. I am glad they did because
they were doing a really bad job. For
about 10 years, we had a great story to
tell in terms of the quality of housing,
the service to the tenants, and the sat-
isfaction of the military families. But
then something got sideways in a very,
very bad way.
This is a shower. If you see this kind
of mold and mildew in your shower,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.029 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4493
June 25, 2019
would you think it is acceptable? If
you go in and see children’s toys—and
this is actually the bottom side of a
crib—mold and mildew in these folks’
housing with small children in them,
people with respiratory conditions liv-
ing in these kinds of conditions, I ex-
pect the garrison down at the bases and
I expect the private housing providers
to move Heaven and Earth to eliminate
these sorts of problems. We are making
progress, but I feel, in order to make
sure it is not progress that is being
made just when they all of a sudden get
the attention of this Senator and other
Members of the U.S. Senate, we have to
change the rules in terms of the au-
thorities that the Department of De-
fense has and the expectations that we
have for the private housing providers.
I have to give thanks to the Acting
Secretary of Defense, formerly the Sec-
retary of the Army, and all of the serv-
ice Secretaries for stepping up. They
have recreated a tenant of bill of
rights. They have created a dispute
process. They have demanded a more
timely and more transparent method
for actually solving service requests.
All of those now have language in this
National Defense Authorization Act
that Congress needs to act quickly on
so that we can make sure we put into
place the right expectations in the
statute, to make sure that the prob-
lems that exist today are fixed and
that they don’t happen again.
I will tell you that while we are mak-
ing progress, when I go to Fort Bragg
and Camp Lejeune, I hold what are
called sensing sessions, which are basi-
cally getting a few dozen people to-
gether to hear their complaints. There
is an amazing thing that happens when
I go to North Carolina.
I don’t know, Madam President, if
you have done one of these in Ten-
nessee yet, but if you announce that
you are going to go down and hear
from the tenants, there is an amazing
thing that happens. You have all of
these service requests that are about to
here when they announce that I am
coming to Jacksonville or I am coming
to Fayetteville. About a day or two be-
fore I get there, magically, they have
been able to solve almost all of those
service requests. Then I go away for a
couple of months, and I see them com-
ing back up again.
One thing that everybody who is lis-
tening—and these are not just the pri-
vate housing providers. It is the De-
partment of Defense and Congress that
I think have shifted their focus away
from this problem, and we have to
maintain a focus on it.
So for my part, I just spoke with my
scheduling director and my State staff.
I told them that I want to take the
next sensing session up a level. I want
a townhall. I want to be able to put 200
or 300 families with housing down in
Jacksonville at Camp Lejeune and
down at Ft. Bragg in Fayetteville—I
want to put them in a room, and I want
to make it very clear to everybody in-
volved, whether it is the private hous-
ing provider, the garrison commanders,
the Department of Defense, and put a
light on us in Congress because it is
our inaction that has caused the prob-
lem.
We want to know what their prob-
lems are. We are going to hear from
hundreds of people. We are going to
make progress on these kinds of things
through the provisions in the NDAA,
but we still have to continue to focus
on this problem.
First, I want to thank Senator
INHOFE. He did a great job in terms of
casting light on this, and I know I have
the commitment of the chairman of
the Senate Armed Services Committee,
but I don’t want these just to be words
on the floor. I want them to be words
that are put into action in terms of
how we can help these military fami-
lies today.
If you have a service request out-
standing with any vendor and you do
not feel like you are getting a proper
response, I want you to write down
‘‘Tillis.senate.gov.’’ In my office, we
will treat every single housing request
you have as a request for casework,
and I will have one of several dozen
staff members in my office open up a
case and track it until it is completed.
As for anybody else who knows a
servicemember who has this problem
and thinks he will not have somebody
who will follow up on it, give me a
chance. We have already solved a lot of
them, and we are going to solve a lot
more. We are not going to finish until
I believe the men and women and the
families at Fort Bragg, at Camp
Lejeune, and at bases across this coun-
try have the safe and comfortable
housing they deserve.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TILLIS). The Senator from Tennessee.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, in
1831, a young Frenchman who sought to
understand the motivating principles
behind the world’s newest independent
Nation mused:
In America, the principle of the sov-
ereignty . . . is not either barren or con-
cealed, as it is with some other nations; it is
recognized by the customs and proclaimed by
the laws; it spreads freely, and arrives with-
out impediment at its most remote con-
sequences.
Alexis de Tocqueville had come to
America on a research mission. He had
had no special training in government
or political science, but he had been
fueled by a desire to know if the prin-
ciples that had guided the early Amer-
ican Republic could help his fellow
Frenchmen. Even as an outsider, de
Tocqueville had seen freedom, not a
lone figurehead or compulsory philos-
ophy, as the foundation to build upon.
Freedom had been what he had seen as
an enduring foundation.
Today, however, the belief in a moral
right to self-governance is more often
than not portrayed as quaint and the
kind of fierce independence that drove
our Founders to the battlefield as out-
dated in comparison to modern con-
cepts of so-called global governance
and polite codependence.
Yet, when I look at the state of the
world and all of its competing philoso-
phies, I am very grateful for our bold
commitment to self-defense. That is
why I come to the floor today—to ex-
press my thoughts on our National De-
fense Authorization Act and to say a
thank-you to Chairman INHOFE for his
leadership in pushing the Senate
Armed Services Committee to present
ideas, to bring forward amendments,
and to work through this process to-
gether. I am looking forward to the
couple of days in front of us in this
Chamber with Members from both sides
of the aisle.
It cannot be understated that the im-
portance of maintaining a regular
budget for our military cannot be di-
minished. The failure to do so will put
our troops at a disadvantage. Look no
further than the ongoing tension right
now between the United States and
Iran and how this has magnified the
part that deterrence plays—the impor-
tance of deterrence—in our defending
our security without our resorting to
the use of military force.
Last week, I spoke at length about
two emerging warfighting domains
that challenge the way we think about
modern defense. These are cyber and
space. That is why this year’s NDAA
expands beyond legacy programs to in-
clude the recognition of emerging
threats and our responses to those.
The next great threat to our sov-
ereignty may be more subtle than a
bomb’s being dropped on American soil.
It could undermine our cyber security
or slowly compromise the supply chain
that provides us with needed micro-
electronics. It might cause us to ques-
tion our position in the world or to
rethink our influence in the inter-
national community. It is important to
understand that these attacks aren’t
only meant to undermine our relation-
ships and our infrastructure; they are
coordinated and intentional attacks on
the foundations that de Tocqueville
recognized as being powerful, unique,
and underpinning what we have in the
United States.
The implications are clear: Every-
thing we do in this Chamber must be
understood in the context of defending
America’s sovereignty. It means be-
lieving in the supremacy of the Con-
stitution and giving the defense com-
munity the means to protect us in
order to fulfill that first responsibility
of providing for the common defense. It
means recognizing that freedom of
speech, freedom of the press, and free
assembly are just as precious as any
physical thing we can put under lock
and key.
Those who would threaten our free-
dom and safety do not look to America
and see our formidable military as the
single greatest threat to their destruc-
tive agendas. They are most frightened
by our unwavering and ardent commit-
ment to freedom. Our enemies are
frightened of the young men and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.030 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4494 June 25, 2019
women who willingly join the military.
They volunteer for service.
They are frightened by the strength
of conviction that leads men and
women on our streets to protect pro-
tests even though they would never
join those protests—not in a million
years. They do this because they recog-
nize that defending someone’s right to
speak is just as important as speaking
oneself.
Our enemies are frightened by the
confidence with which we defend the
Constitution when well-meaning actors
ask if we could set the First Amend-
ment aside to better protect impres-
sionable minds from dangerous ideas.
Ours is the kind of freedom that is al-
ways in danger of extinction, just as
the late President Reagan repeatedly
reminded us, but it is also worth pro-
tecting.
This week, I implore my friends on
both sides of the aisle to do all they
can to ensure that our best, first line of
defense has the ability to protect and
defend freedom and freedom’s cause.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from Okla-
homa.
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, we
have been discussing this, and I think
it is not just redundant but it is impor-
tant to reemphasize that this is the
most significant vote of the year. This
is a $750 billion bill. This is the one
that our entire military is depending
on having pass. It will pass. It has
passed every year for 59 years, and it is
going to pass this year. I am con-
cerned, however, that there is an effort
to try to delay it for a week or two,
which is something that will not work,
which I will explain in a minute.
It just occurred to me that there is
so much stuff in this bill. We talk
about all of the equipment. We talk
about the change. We talk about trying
to make up and trying to catch up with
Russia and with China and our adver-
saries, who are actually ahead of us in
many areas. That is all significant, but
there is one issue that not many people
are aware of that I think is really sig-
nificant and is addressed. It kind of
lets you know how far this bill goes.
There is a problem that exists with
the spouses of the military. Right now,
under the Trump administration, we
are seeing the best economy we have
had, arguably, in my lifetime. We are
clearly seeing success in tax relief, a
reduction in taxes, because of this.
Then, of course, there is the deregula-
tory effort by this administration.
Right now, we have the lowest na-
tional unemployment rate we have had
in a long period of time—3.6 percent.
Full employment is supposed to be 4
percent. In my State of Oklahoma, we
are even doing better than that; we
have 3.2 percent.
Anyway, families across the country
are feeling the benefit of getting the
economic engine moving again, and
that is good, but there is one group
that still faces extreme unemploy-
ment, that being the military spouses.
People don’t think about this, but in
almost every case of the members of
the military’s husbands or wives, who-
ever the spouse happens to be, they
want part-time employment. Of course,
many of them are skilled and have pre-
pared for careers, but they are not able
to get careers or to get employment be-
cause of the spouses’ moving some-
times every 2 years or every 3 years so
that they have to go into whole new
environments. There are some State
laws that preclude spouses from get-
ting employment without their com-
plying with certifications from the dif-
ferent States.
In 2018, there was a RAND study that
found that frequent military moves re-
sult in spousal unemployment or
underemployment and delays in em-
ployment among spouses who need to
obtain credentials at new duty loca-
tions. We need to facilitate easier
paths to both licensure and employ-
ment for military spouses.
Now, we make a correction in this
policy that—as President Trump signed
an Executive order last year—would
work to improve employment opportu-
nities for military spouses. Well, he did
that with an Executive order, and we
have gone a little further with this bill.
We have been successful in getting
these results, and they are clear. Mili-
tary spouses’ unemployment dropped
from nearly 25 percent in 2017 to 13 per-
cent in 2019, but it is still a significant
thing. It is still a form of discrimina-
tion by people because they are the
spouse of a servicemember.
That is significant progress, but it
also doesn’t address the more than one-
third of military spouses who are un-
deremployed, working part time or
outside their education or technical
field.
One area where we can make an im-
mediate impact is for approximately 35
percent of the military spouses in ca-
reers that require occupational licenses
that are administered by the States.
They may be different from State to
State, and these individuals are not in
a position to satisfy one State and then
go to another State. Most of those
spouses are licensed in healthcare and
education, but others include attorneys
and real estate agents.
For the military family moving an
average of every 2 years, relicensing
and transferring the license each time
becomes very costly. So the solution is
simple. We just have to go after more
of the redtape that makes it hard for
our military spouses to move their pro-
fessional license, move their career.
This is something we have addressed in
this bill. People don’t think about this,
but we have done it, and so this is
going to give a lot of relief to these
people.
It kind of reminds me, when you look
at the overwhelming issues we have
dealt with in this bill, it is something
that is very significant, and it is some-
thing that is, by far, the most impor-
tant thing we will be doing all year.
There is a report from the National
Defense Strategy Commission. The
Commission has Democrats and Repub-
licans. A year ago, this group got to-
gether, and they are the very foremost
authorities in the country on military.
They decided what it is we need to do.
We went through 8 years of the
Obama administration, and I have to
admit that he was very honest about it.
He never had defending America as a
top priority, and so we find ourselves
in the situation where we have coun-
tries like China and like Russia who
are actually ahead of us in areas like
hypersonics.
Hypersonics is the most state-of-the-
art thing we are doing in both defense
and offense. It is a system that moves
at five times the speed of sound, and we
were leading all of the rest of the world
in this effort until that administration,
and that put us behind so that both
China and Russia are ahead of us in
that area.
This is something that really dis-
appoints a lot of American people when
they find out.
I go out and give talks around the
country, and when I tell them that
there are countries that have better
equipment than we do, better artillery
than we do, they are surprised to find
that out. Clearly, China and Russia are
doing that.
Now, a lot of times people would say:
Well, wait a minute. How could they be
ahead of us when we are spending so
much more money than they are on
our defense? The reason for that is very
simple. It is something people don’t
think about, and that is the single
largest expense item is the cost of peo-
ple. Of course, in China and Russia
they just tell them what to do. They
don’t have to have good living condi-
tions for their troops.
Consequently, they are actually
doing better than we are doing in many
areas. This is more than just our con-
ventional capabilities.
The NDAA—National Defense Au-
thorization Act—fully funds our nu-
clear modernization. It looks out for
our troops, giving them the largest pay
raise in over a decade. We make needed
reforms to our privatized military
housing.
We thought things were going pretty
well. A number of years ago, we de-
cided to privatize our military housing.
I was here at that time, and I thought
it was a good idea. No one was opposed
to it, and we did it.
The problem is the contractors who
came in and won these contracts to
take care of military housing worked
fine for the first 2 or 3 years, then they
got a little bit greedy, and time went
by, and all of a sudden it all exploded
last February when several people got
together from military housing and
talked about the deplorable conditions
that we wouldn’t expect anyone to live
under.
Subsequently, we had a series of
hearings in the committee I chair. The
first one was a hearing on the victims,
the individuals who are living in those
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.032 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4495
June 25, 2019
housing conditions. They told the sto-
ries about all the problems with the
housing situation.
The next thing we had was a hearing
on the contractors. These are the guys
who came along and bid so they would
be able to do it. They admitted in the
public hearing that was true and that
they had not been doing the job they
needed to do.
That is something in this bill that we
have taken care of. We now have a sys-
tem set up that has pretty much re-
solved that problem.
So we have a lot of capabilities that
are in this bill. It makes it easier and
more affordable for spouses to transfer
their occupational licenses. That is
what I was just talking about.
I said before that this bill is going to
pass, and it will, but what would keep
it from passing is if the minority lead-
er, CHUCK SCHUMER, is successful in in-
sisting on delaying consideration until
July.
This has to be done by the end of this
fiscal year, and that is creeping up on
us. In the event that we don’t get it
done this week, as we had planned to
do, then very likely it is not going to
be done next week or the week after
that because the longer it takes some-
thing like this to do, we know the po-
litical reality of how that works.
We have to get this thing done, we
have to get it passed by Thursday, and
I think we will. This bill has the stuff
in it that we really need. It is the most
significant bill we have.
So we want to avoid any delays in
the calendar. It would likely mean that
we would not be able to enact the
NDAA before October 1 and the start of
the fiscal year. That has real impact.
That would delay the fixes we are talk-
ing about in privatization of housing.
The delays in MILCON money.
MILCON, that is military construction.
We have a lot of military construction
that is proposed right now. If you put
it off a week, we don’t know what will
happen to that military construction.
There are delays in disaster recovery.
We have right now—and you have
heard on the floor today the problems
that exist in various States: Florida,
North Carolina, and some places out in
the Nebraska area and around there.
We have disaster recovery programs
that we can’t do if we delay this thing
for another couple weeks. These people
are going to have to be living in those
conditions for that period of time. The
authority for Afghanistan National Se-
curity Forces and Iraq security co-
operation will expire by that time.
So there is every reason in the world
that we should go ahead. I think it is
pretty bad when a political decision is
made to delay the consideration of this
bill for another week or 2 weeks—all
done for purely political reasons be-
cause the Democrats are having their
big show on TV tomorrow night and
the next night, and they want us to sit
and watch that as opposed to finishing
this bill.
It is our intention to go ahead, finish
the bill, get it done, and that is what
we are going to do. We are anxious to
do it.
I am very proud of the committee I
chair. The Senate Armed Services
Committee met for a period of several
months and talked about all the pos-
sible amendments that could be consid-
ered, and there is a lot of talk right
now about the fact that we are not
doing amendments on the floor.
Well, we wanted to do amendments
on the floor. JACK REED, the Democrat
who is my counterpart here, he and I
have been talking about doing floor
amendments for a long period of time,
but under the rules of the Senate, if
one person objects to bringing an
amendment up, then no amendments
can come up.
For that reason, we took the initia-
tive just yesterday and passed the sup-
plemental bill that has 93 amendments.
So all of those amendments came
through this process of people talking
about their amendments, they just
can’t do it on the floor. That is what is
happening right now. We have the best
of intentions to continue doing that
until we get the bill.
So let me just reinvite the Members
down. We have, right now, a long list of
the 93 amendments and the sponsors of
those amendments, and we are encour-
aging each Member to bring his amend-
ment down to the floor. Even though it
may not be considered individually, it
already passed yesterday, and people
need to know what is in this bill.
So I am going to encourage our Mem-
bers, invite them to come down right
now and to get involved and explain to
not just this U.S. Senate but to every-
one else what all is in this bill.
People have a right to have pride in
their own amendments, and so we are
encouraging them to come down at this
time and present their amendments.
With that, I will invite them down.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President,
while we are waiting for other Sen-
ators, let me once again encourage
Members of the Senate to come down
and talk about their amendments.
It is kind of an awkward situation
that we have here, and we are all aware
of this, but the Senate rules say that
amendments can’t come to the floor
except by unanimous consent. That
means that if there is one person who
objects to having an amendment come
up and be considered, then all that per-
son has to do is object.
Frankly, that happened last year. We
had a couple Members who were hold-
ing out for a nongermane amendment
they wanted to consider, and they stat-
ed they would hold up all the other
amendments. That happened, and it
looks like it is happening again this
year, but we are prepared this year be-
cause, anticipating that would be the
case, yesterday we passed the 93
amendments with the bill—that we
went to as the underlying bill. We now
have 93 amendments in addition to the
amendments we already had. We are
probably now in excess of 200 amend-
ments that we have had on this bill
since its inception. Most of these
amendments are bipartisan. In fact,
the 93 amendments we adopted yester-
day were amendments we had consid-
ered in the committee I chair, the Sen-
ate Armed Services Committee. Of
those amendments, 44 were Demo-
crats’, 44 were Republicans’, and the
rest were bipartisan.
So this is not really that partisan of
a bill.
Anyway, this includes an amendment
by my colleagues, Senator GRAHAM and
Senator HEINRICH, in support of pluto-
nium pit production, which is key to
maintaining our nuclear stockpile.
A lot of people are not aware of the
problems we have with plutonium pit
production. Consequently, we have to
be competitive in this area. We have
not had a nuclear modernization pro-
gram in quite a long period of time.
Nuclear modernization has gotten a lot
of attention this year.
Traditionally, we have seen bipar-
tisan support for these programs, and
there is a good reason for that. Our nu-
clear force is critical to our deterrence
posture and, in turn, the overall secu-
rity of the Nation and really the world.
This is our top priority—defending
America.
Stop and think about it. The threat
that is out there today—I often say I
look wistfully back at the days of the
Cold War when there were two super-
powers. We knew what they had, they
knew what we had, and mutual de-
struction really meant something at
that time. It doesn’t mean anything
anymore. There are people who are run
by deranged leaders in countries, and
these people have the power to knock
out an American city. That is the kind
of threat we are faced with today, and
that is why nuclear deterrence is so
significant. It is such a significant part
of this bill. Our nuclear force is critical
for our deterrence posture and, in turn,
the overall security of the Nation.
Anyway, we can’t pretend that just
because we take a step back, countries
like Russia and China will do the same.
And we did. For a period of time, in the
last administration, we did step back
in our efforts, and a lot of those efforts
were in nuclear modernization. Con-
sequently, while we were ahead in this
area—ahead of China and Russia—they
caught up and actually passed us.
Right now, they have hypersonics, as
an example. Hypersonics is kind of the
state-of-the-art in warfare. It is some-
thing that travels five times the speed
of sound. It is something we were
ahead of prior to the last administra-
tion, and we fell behind because while
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.033 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4496 June 25, 2019
we were not doing anything, China and
Russia were doing things. We tried this
before during the Obama administra-
tion; it just didn’t work.
We know Russia and China are mod-
ernizing their nuclear forces at an
alarming speed while we have been ne-
glecting ours. And North Korea and
Iran continue to pursue nuclear pro-
grams, furthering their goals of cre-
ating instability and gaining influence
in their regions, and we are at a dis-
advantage. It poses a formidable threat
to America and our allies.
If we don’t provide robust support of
our nuclear programs now, do it now,
we will be in danger of falling behind.
The National Defense Strategy ac-
knowledged this reality. That is the
thing I talked about a few minutes ago,
that we have the National Defense
Strategy as a blueprint for what we
have been doing in our defense author-
ization committee, and we have been
adhering to that. The NDAA takes this
into account and supports all of the as-
pects of the triad.
The triad—recently, people have said:
Well, we don’t need to spend an amount
of money on a triad system. ‘‘Triad’’
obviously means three approaches to
our nuclear defense. When you stop and
think about the three different ways a
weapon can come into the United
States, it can come in on an ICBM, it
can come in on a submarine, or it can
come in on a bomber. So that is what
they mean by ‘‘triad.’’ For somebody
to say ‘‘Well, we don’t need the three
approaches; we need only one,’’ well, if
we knew in advance what that weapon
was coming in on, what was going to be
used for its delivery, then I would
agree with that. But that can’t happen,
so we can’t block off a leg or two of the
triad or the whole thing will collapse.
Each component provides a different
type of protection and, combined,
makes it far more challenging for ad-
versaries to find opportunities to
strike, and there are adversaries out
there who want to do that.
Make no mistake—our adversaries
are paying attention to their capabili-
ties and to our capabilities. We need a
strong, resilient, responsive nuclear en-
terprise to deter threats.
Nuclear weapons aren’t just a relic of
the Cold War, but currently we are
treating them that way. Half of our
DOE nuclear facilities are more than 40
years old, and a quarter date back to
World War II. After years of neglect,
the ceilings are literally falling down
around the workers in nuclear com-
plexes across the country. Fortunately,
in fact, we have several people coming
down here and talking about that
threat because in some States, their
Senators want to be sure they are
doing a good job in maintaining our
nuclear capability. So we need to mod-
ernize and revitalize this infrastruc-
ture if we want to maintain pace with
China and Russia and if we want to pre-
serve a credible nuclear deterrent.
I think it is important to note that
the cost of modernization is not exces-
sive. It averages about 5 percent of the
DOD budget. That seems like a small
price to pay to prevent a nuclear war.
The NDAA—that is what we are con-
sidering now—the National Defense
Authorization Act fully funds the nu-
clear modernization program at or
above the request, including additional
funding for Columbia-class submarines
and low-yield ballistic missile war-
heads.
The NDAA also pushes the National
Nuclear Security Administration to-
ward its goal of plutonium pit produc-
tion—a requirement to meet the needs
of our nuclear strategy.
These investments will increase our
capabilities and bring us into the 21st
century. This is what we need to be
doing to implement the National De-
fense Strategy and assess the full range
of threats our Nation faces. You know,
it is a dangerous world out there, and
we have a lot of people out there who
don’t like America—let’s face it.
I was disappointed in the last admin-
istration, talking about the Obama ad-
ministration. It was the first time in
my memory—certainly since World
War II—that we had either a Demo-
cratic or Republican administration
that used something other than defend-
ing America as a primary goal of our
country. Instead, that has dropped
back, and we suffer the consequences.
So we are in the process right now of
rebuilding our military. We did it in
2018. That was the first year of the
Trump administration. He increased
the military spending back to where it
had been before—up to $700 billion and
then $716 billion the next year and then
$750 billion in the bill we are consid-
ering at this very moment. So we are
going to end up with a stronger Amer-
ica. I think that by the end of this
year, if everything we are doing with
this bill is fully implemented and be-
hind us, we are going to be in good
shape to do the job we are supposed to
be doing in defending America.
In the meantime, we have this bill.
Again, I will quit talking and encour-
age our Members to come down and
talk about their amendments. One who
is going to be coming down in just a
few minutes—in fact, is due down any
minute now—is Senator RICHARD BURR.
He is in charge of intelligence. He
chairs the Intelligence Committee, and
that is a part of this bill.
It is important that people under-
stand how far-reaching this is. This is
the most significant thing we are
doing, and that is probably the real
reason we don’t want to give in to the
minority leader of the Senate, who is
trying to get us to delay this for an-
other week or longer because of the big
show people are going to see on TV to-
morrow and the next day of all the
Democrats who are going to run for
President. If I remember, the last time,
we had 17 Republicans running. This
time, we have 20 Democrats running.
Anyway, that might be a great show,
but it is not as important as the work
we are doing here. And we absolutely
have to get this done this week in
order to fulfill the obligation we have
to the American people.
Let me again encourage our Members
to come down and discuss their amend-
ments because we are going to be com-
ing to a vote this week on all of those,
and we have to make sure we have a
full house of Senators who know every-
thing that is in this bill.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I want to
thank Chairman INHOFE and Ranking
Member REED for accommodating the
Intelligence Committee’s intelligence
authorization bill for 2020 to be in-
cluded in the NDAA. I want to thank
Leader MCCONNELL and Senator SCHU-
MER for their understanding of why
this is important to do.
The Senate Select Committee on In-
telligence is a unique committee. We
uphold the secrecy and the confiden-
tiality of intelligence programs that
keep our Nation safe every day. We en-
sure our intelligence community has
the tools and resources to protect
America at home and abroad.
So I am pleased that the Senate is
considering our intelligence authoriza-
tion bill as part of the NDAA. Our bill
is 3 fiscal years in the making. In May,
the Senate Intelligence Committee
unanimously passed the bill with a
vote of 15 to 0. Let me say that one
more time. We unanimously passed the
intelligence authorization bill 15 to 0.
I appreciate Vice Chairman WARNER’s
work and his collaboration to achieve
that unanimous support of all 15 Mem-
bers of the Intelligence Committee.
The bill is a genuinely bipartisan prod-
uct that protects the United States,
strengthens our national security, and
supports the activities of the men and
women who are serving in uniform
around the clock and around the globe.
I would remind the Presiding Officer
and the Members that it is the 15 Mem-
bers of the Select Committee on Intel-
ligence who give the other 85 Members
of the Senate and the American people
the assurance that our intelligence ac-
tivities operate within the Constitu-
tion and/or the Executive orders of the
President.
The last intelligence authorization
bill for fiscal year 2017 was enacted
May 5, 2017. We have gone too long
without critical resources and authori-
ties that our intelligence agencies need
to do their work and to keep our coun-
try safe from ever-expanding national
security threats. Not only does our bill
fund the U.S. intelligence activities
across 17 agencies, but it enables con-
gressional oversight of the intelligence
community’s classified activities. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.036 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4497
June 25, 2019
bill ensures financial accountability
for the programs we authorize and sup-
ports development of future capabili-
ties to stay a step ahead of our adver-
saries. We do not have time to waste as
the threats increase in scope and scale.
All of this bipartisan oversight and
accountability can exist only when we
have a current, enacted intelligence
authorization bill. Our intelligence
agencies need the authorization, the di-
rection, and the guidance from Con-
gress to protect and defend America,
its allies, and its partners. The agen-
cies need these authorizations to col-
lect, analyze, and utilize intelligence
and to recruit and retain the personnel
they need. Equally important, our au-
thorization bill ensures that those ac-
tivities abide by our Constitution and
privacy laws.
I would like to mention some spe-
cifics in the bill. First, it deters Rus-
sian and other foreign influence in our
U.S. elections. It facilitates informa-
tion sharing between Federal, State,
and local election officials. These ac-
tivities are essential to protecting the
foundation of our democracy, our U.S.
elections.
Next, the bill increases oversight of
Russian activities by requiring notifi-
cations of Russian Federation per-
sonnel travel in the United States,
countering Russian propaganda activi-
ties within the United States, and by
requiring threat assessments on Rus-
sian financial activities.
In addition, the bill improves our se-
curity clearance processes by requiring
the intelligence community to take
steps to reduce backlogs, improving
clearance information sharing and
oversight and holding the executive
branch responsible for modernizing
clearance policies.
The bill protects the intelligence
community’s supply chain from foreign
counterintelligence threats from coun-
tries such as Russia and China.
Importantly, the bill increases bene-
fits for intelligence community per-
sonnel by enhancing pay scales for cer-
tain cyber security positions and in-
creasing paid parental leave.
Finally, it establishes increased ac-
countability for our most sensitive pro-
grams.
The Senate Intelligence Committee
has acted carefully and comprehen-
sively to oversee our intelligence com-
munity and its resources. But the cur-
rent gap in authorities is unacceptable
and, frankly, dangerous. Our enemies
and adversaries do not take 2 years off.
Congress cannot afford to let our intel-
ligence authorization bills lapse any
longer.
I will end where I started. Without
the collaboration and cooperation of
the chairman and the ranking member
and the entire SAS Committee, we
wouldn’t have this opportunity, but
they recognize as well as we do that
the security of America comes first.
Any delay in authorizing the intel-
ligence community bill or passing the
NDAA is not what America expects us
to do. They expect us to pass an au-
thorization bill rapidly and with as
much predictability as possible for the
men and women in uniform and those
who serve in the shadows of our intel-
ligence community. An authorization
bill that is done quickly and clearly
makes their lives and futures more pre-
dictable. America’s safety is too impor-
tant for us to delay any longer author-
izations for the military or for the in-
telligence community.
I once again thank the chairman for
his accommodations in this bill. I urge
my colleagues in this body to pass this
authorization bill as quickly as we pos-
sibly can and send a signal to the men
and women who serve this country and
defend this country that Congress is on
their side and not in opposition to
them.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
am pleased and honored to be on the
floor with my colleague, the Senator
from the great State of Rhode Island.
We share a border, and we share many
common views, one of them being a
commitment to our environment. Sen-
ator WHITEHOUSE has been a historic
champion of action against environ-
mental degradation, as well as climate
change—global warming—which brings
us to the floor today.
We are here to call attention and call
for action in connection with the ef-
fects of climate change on the waters
off our State and the east coast of our
Nation.
There is a palpable, historic con-
sequence to the warming of those
waters, among others, to drive fish
populations northward in search of
cooler waters. The Northeast has al-
ready experienced some of the highest
levels of ocean warming and sea level
rise in the United States. They are
only projected to exacerbate and ex-
ceed the present levels.
There are storms our States—Rhode
Island and Connecticut, and others up
and down the East Coast and all around
the country—have experienced. Those
new superstorms are becoming the new
normal in our Nation, the most recent
being the unprecedented hurricane and
then Superstorm Sandy.
Connecticut and Rhode Island are
poised to lose land to sea level rise.
Scientists predict an almost 2-foot in-
crease in the level of Long Island
Sound by 2050. My colleague Senator
WHITEHOUSE has been here more times
than I can count—I think more than
200 times—to call our attention to the
effects and the causes of this historic
and catastrophic trend of climate
change in our Nation and on our plan-
et.
What brings us here today is the very
discrete and disastrous consequence of
those waters warming and changing
fish populations that are available to a
group of our citizens and residents who
have been an economic mainstay and
backbone for our States. They are the
fishermen who carry on a great profes-
sion and way of life, despite an out-
dated and Byzantine quota system that
has failed to adapt to those movements
of fish stock, like black sea bass, sum-
mer flounder, and scup from their
waters northward and then new fish
populations from the Mid-Atlantic
States to our waters.
These fish quotas fail to take ac-
count of changing fish populations. The
fish are smart biologically. They know
when the waters are warming. They
seek cooler waters further north, but
the quotas fail to keep track. So the
fish that are caught by our fishermen
are not the same kinds as they caught
before, and they are not the same kinds
that are contemplated by the present
quotas. They are catching fish they are
required to throw back even after they
are dead. So this quota system is fail-
ing at every level. It is failing environ-
mentally if the goal is to enhance and
save fish populations; it is failing eco-
nomically because it is driving these
fishermen out of their way of life; and
it is failing in public policy by failing
to provide a rational and informed way
to set those quotas.
There is a solution because this
whole system is governed by the Mag-
nuson-Stevens Act, which, by the way,
is under the Commerce, Science, and
Transportation Committee, where I sit.
There have been proposals to reform
and change it. The current Byzantine
system of quota setting is really a relic
of a long-gone era, and it should be re-
formed. Right now, immediately, the
Secretary of Commerce can intervene.
The statute says the law governing the
management of fisheries requires that
the Department of Commerce must en-
sure fishery management plans adhere
to several national standards, includ-
ing the use of the ‘‘best scientific infor-
mation available to decide catch lim-
its.’’ It also says that any management
plan ‘‘shall not discriminate’’ between
residents of different States and must
allow quotas that are ‘‘fair and equi-
table.’’ This system is failing those
standards.
I agree with fishermen of Con-
necticut and, I believe, of Rhode Island
who are saying this current system is
nonsensical. It is outdated. It is irra-
tional, and it is worthless. It fails to
give them fairness and justice. It is
time for action.
The Commerce Department should
use its power—extraordinary as it is—
to impose emergency regulations and
create a more equitable system.
As Bobby Guzzo, a fisherman from
Stonington told Greenwire recently:
Things have changed—the fish have moved
north, but the quotas have not changed to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.038 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4498 June 25, 2019
keep up with it. The science has to be better.
They’ve got to get more of a handle on it.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Greenwire article be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[June 4, 2019]
AS FISH MOVE NORTH, ‘THINGS ARE GETTING
WEIRD OUT THERE’
(BY ROB HOTAKAINEN)
STONINGTON, CONN.—Here in one of New
England’s oldest fishing communities,
there’s a longing for the old days, long before
climate change and the federal government’s
quota system got so complicated.
Convinced that Congress and NOAA will
never allow them larger quotas, many fisher-
men want to take their grievances straight
to the White House, hoping the commander
in chief will intervene and allow them to
catch more fish.
At his fish wholesaling business, Mike
Gambardella reached for his iPhone to find
one of his prized photographs: a picture
showing him wearing a white T-shirt bearing
the message, ‘‘President Trump: Make Com-
mercial Fishing Great Again!’’
Bobby Guzzo, Gambardella’s friend, who’s
been fishing here for more than 50 years, has
the same sign on a bumper sticker plastered
on the back window of his pickup.
‘‘It used to be you’d go catch fish, come in
and sell them,’’ Guzzo said. But now the sys-
tem is needlessly complicated, he said, with
too much bookwork and a quota system
that’s hard to decipher, adding, ‘‘Now you’ve
got to be a lawyer.’’
‘‘If you get ahold of the president, tell him
to come see us,’’ Gambardella tells a visitor.
With a lack of fish, Gambardella said, it’s
gotten to the point where it’s even difficult
to get trucks to come through Stonington
any more. He tells the story of a friend in
the business who killed himself.
‘‘We don’t have enough fish—and it’s not a
Connecticut thing; it’s all of us,’’
Gambardella said. ‘‘And little by little, we’re
all going out of business. The Lord gave us
that ocean, and he put fish in that ocean for
us to eat. And now we can’t even get the
fish.’’
The struggling commercial fishermen in
Stonington, a small town that was first set-
tled in 1649, are doing all they can to get
Trump’s attention.
When the president showed up in nearby
New London, Conn., to address the Coast
Guard Academy class two years ago, they
got as close as they could, parking a boat
that bore a simple sign: ‘‘Please help us.’’
Gambardella even left his cellphone num-
ber on the Twitter paqe of Linda McMahon,
a former professional wrestling executive
who until recently served as the head of the
Small Business Administration.
‘‘We’ve been trying to get to the presi-
dent,’’ Gambardella said. ‘‘We like his style.
. . . He sat down with the coal miners. He sat
down with the farmers. It’s time to sit down
with the fishermen.’’
Without intervention, the fishermen only
see their plight worsening as climate change
forces more fish to move to cooler waters
and regulators scramble to adjust quotas.
‘‘Things have changed—the fish have
moved north, but the quotas have not
changed to keep up with it,’’ Guzzo said.
‘‘The science has to be better. They’ve got to
get more of a handle on it.’’
That’s easier said than done, under a byz-
antine regulatory system that’s often slow
to adapt. It has also forced fishermen to
learn the new language of Washington, D.C.,
navigating a world of catch shares and stock
assessments, of fish mortality rates and
maximum sustainable yields.
While they’re upset with the quota system,
many fishenmen and politicians are also
angry that fishermen must throw away the
‘‘bycatch,’’ the fish they bring in by accident
but are not licensed to catch.
Gambardella said he’s particularly eager to
tell the president that Americans are eating
too much ‘‘chemical shit,’’ consuming im-
ported seafood while millions of pounds of
healthy wild seafood gets discarded every
year.
‘‘He’s going to be shocked to know that we
import over 90% of our seafood, and we have
fish in our backyard here that we’re throw-
ing overboard,’’ Gambardella said. ‘‘I don’t
understand—we’re throwing good wild sea-
food overboard that we could sell or have the
kids eat healthy food. It’s sad, really, really
sad. . . . The whole thing is so screwed up.’’
Lawmakers from coastal states have long
argued the case on Capitol Hill, with no luck
in winning any changes.
At a hearing last fall, Connecticut Sen.
Richard Blumenthal (D) said ‘‘there is some-
thing profoundly unfair and intolerable’’
with a management system that forces fish-
ermen to discard so much seafood while
many people across the world go hungry.
‘‘They are compelled to throw back per-
fectly good fish that they catch as a result of
quotas that are based on totally obsolete,
out-of-touch limits,’’ he said. ‘‘And mean-
while, fishermen from Southern states come
into their waters and catch their fish,’’ he
said of fishermen in more northern points.
In a speech on the Senate floor last year,
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D–R.I.) said
fishenmen in his state are now routinely
sharing anecdotes of catching increasing
numbers of tropical fish early in the summer
season.
‘‘As fishermen in Rhode Island have told
me, ‘Things are getting weird out there,’ ’’
Whitehouse said. ‘‘As new fish move in and
traditional fish move out, fishermen are left
with more questions than answers.’’
In Washington, members of Congress are
trying to figure out how to best respond.
‘‘Climate change is throwing some real
curveballs at fisheries management,’’ said
Rep. Jared Huffman (D–Calif.), chairman of
the House Natural Resources Subcommittee
on Water, Oceans and Wildlife, adding that
he intended to schedule ‘‘some roundtables
with folks who are living through this.’’
The issue is sure to come up when Congress
examines the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery
Conservation and Management Act, the na-
tion’s premier fisheries law, first passed in
1976. The law created eight regional fishery
management councils to develop fishery
management plans, working with NOAA on
‘‘a transparent and robust process of science,
management, innovation and collaboration
with the fishing industry.’’
But there’s disagreement over who’s best
equipped to change the rules: regional
boards, which are dominated by state inter-
ests, or Congress, which has its own share of
political pressures.
‘‘You need some strong federal guidance,’’
said Dave Monti, a charter boat captain and
fishing guide who operates in Wickford Har-
bor in North Kingstown, R.I., and the vice
president of the Rhode Island Saltwater An-
glers Association.
‘‘Local needs circumvent the needs of the
people of the United States of America. I’m
a firm believer that those fish in the water
don’t belong to me and they don’t belong to
Rhode Island. Someone living in Minnesota
or Kentucky owns these fish as much as any-
one else does.’’
Chris Batsavage, who represents North
Carolina on the Atlantic States Marine Fish-
eries Commission and the Mid-Atlantic Fish-
ery Management Council, said regional
boards have struggled to find the right allo-
cations for years. But he said they’re capable
of doing the job.
‘‘It’s still a work in progress—no one has
found a silver-bullet solution,’’ Batsavage
said. ‘‘But I think we’re going to get to go
where we need to go. Allocations are always
one of the most contentious things a man-
agement agency has to deal with.’’
Huffman said regional councils remain
‘‘part of the critical framework’’ and that
he’s not interested in taking their power
away. He said Congress’ role will be to set
the policy and leave implementation to re-
gional fisheries officials.
‘‘I don’t want to undermine the councils,’’
Huffman said. ‘‘And what I don’t want to do
is a whole bunch of micromanaging.’’
But while many fishermen and politicians
complain about U.S. fishing rules, NOAA
boasts that the nation has become an inter-
national leader in fisheries management.
In 2017, Chris Oliver, who heads NOAA
Fisheries, told a congressional panel that the
law clearly had worked and that the United
States had ‘‘effectively ended overfishing.’’
NOAA Fisheries tracks 474 stocks or stock
complexes in 46 fishery management plans.
Of those, 91% had not exceeded their annual
catch limits, known as ACLs, according to a
report NOAA sent to Congress in 2017.
Under federal law, fisheries managers must
specify their goals and use ‘‘measurable cri-
teria,’’ also known as reference points, to get
there. That requires a stock assessment,
which is a scientific analysis of the abun-
dance of fish stock and a measure of ‘‘the de-
gree of fishing intensity.’’
Once an assessment is done, fisheries man-
agers must determine if a stock is over-
fished, measuring the ‘‘maximum sustain-
able yield.’’ That’s the largest long-term av-
erage catch that can be taken from a stock.
Fisheries managers then have different
ways to reduce fishing, including the use of
‘‘catch limits’’ or ‘‘catch shares.’’ Catch lim-
its measure the amount of fish that can be
caught, while catch shares are an optional
tool used to allocate shares to individual
fishermen or groups.
KEEPING ‘AN EYE ON THE BIG PICTURE’
As they adjust quotas, NOAA officials walk
a fine line in making sure fishermen follow
the law while cooperating with regional offi-
cials to make any changes.
The Trump administration has already
shown deference for listening to local fisher-
men, overriding regional decisions to shorten
the season for the red snapper in Gulf Coast
states and to limit catches of summer floun-
der for New Jersey fishermen.
‘‘It’s our job in that setting to also keep an
eye on the big picture, and not just all of the
regional and small-scale interests,’’ said
Mike Fogarty, senior scientist at NOAA’s
Northeast Fisheries Science Center in Mas-
sachusetts.
Fogarty, who has studied climate issues
since the early 1990s, said one idea under
consideration is to no longer set regulations
for individual fish species but to instead
focus on their role in an ecosystem, such as
whether they’re part of a prey or a predator
group.
‘‘You could set quotas for the predator
groups, prey groups and bottom-feeder
groups,’’ he said. ‘‘Individual species could
change over time, but their roles would re-
main intact. That could reduce tension be-
tween states.’’
While many fishermen want NOAA to be
more flexible, environmental groups want
regulators to adhere to the federal law and
to adjust fishing quotas as soon as popu-
lations change. A study published in the
ICES Journal of Marine Science in April
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.039 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4499
June 25, 2019
showed that adapting fishing intensity to
the health of fish populations would make
fisheries more climate-resilient. The study
suggested automatically reducing the catch
percentage when managers detect decreases
in biomass, allowing more immediate re-
sponses to changing conditions.
‘‘If a catch limit is too high and too many
fish are taken out of the ocean, the eco-
system suffers,’’ said Jake Kritzer, senior di-
rector with the Environmental Defense
Fund’s oceans program and lead author of
the study. ‘‘If a limit is too low, with more
fish than can be caught sustainably left in
the water, fishermen suffer.’’
So it is past time for an update for a
system that takes advantage of science
and research. We owe it to our fishing
industry, but we owe it to ourselves as
members of this ecosystem, as policy
centers, and as legislators to keep faith
with the fishermen of Rhode Island and
Connecticut. Really, it is with the fish-
ermen of America. As fish stocks shift
north, fishermen from other States are
going to encounter the same chal-
lenges. They will be sailing north to
seek fish stocks off Connecticut’s
coast. Their quotas around their States
are as outmoded and outdated as ours.
The longer trips they will undertake
will mean more carbon pollution,
which will lead to more atmospheric
carbon dioxide, climate shifts, and
acidification of the ocean.
There is some good news amidst all
of this gloom and doom in that we are
already mustering the awareness and
the resolve to take action. That is why
we are here today. It is not only to
wake up but to keep up this kind of
fight.
I thank my colleague, the Senator
from Rhode Island, for leading this
great effort.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, it
is a great honor and pleasure to join
the senior Senator from Connecticut
on the floor today. We were both U.S.
attorneys. We were attorneys general
together. We now serve in the Senate
together, and I consider him a friend
outside of my day job as well. It is ter-
rific to be here with him. It is also a
happy coincidence that a Senator from
another great fishing State, Louisiana,
should be presiding while we speak
about our fisheries. This is my 247th of
these speeches.
Rhode Island, of course, shares a bor-
der with Connecticut, as well as a
proud fishing heritage and connection
to the sea. Whether you are walking
the docks of Stonington and New Lon-
don or of Newport and Point Judith,
the story from our fishermen is the
same—that these are not the waters
that our grandparents, parents, and
great-grandparents fished. One fisher-
men told me: ‘‘Sheldon, it’s getting
weird out there, and it’s a big economic
deal that it’s getting weird out there.’’
In 2017, commercial fishery landings
from Connecticut and Rhode Island to-
taled over $114 million, and that was
just the landings. That was not the an-
cillary fishing economy around it. Car-
bon pollution and warming, acidifying
oceans put that whole economy at risk.
Earlier this month, the National
Academy of Sciences estimated that by
2100, around 17 percent of all ocean life,
by biomass, will disappear. In Feb-
ruary, the journal Science found that
since 1930, we have already lost around
4 percent of our harvestable seafood
due to ocean warming, and the fish
that we are still able to harvest are
getting smaller due to warming tem-
peratures and depleted oxygen levels. A
2017 study warned ‘‘the body size of fish
decreases 20 to 30 percent for every 1-
degree Celsius increase in water tem-
perature,’’ and the water is warming.
Oceans have absorbed more than 90
percent of the excess heat that has
been trapped by our greenhouse gas
emissions. Of all of the excess heat
that has been trapped by greenhouse
gas emissions since we began the In-
dustrial Revolution and started burn-
ing all of these fossil fuels, 90 percent
of it has gone into the oceans.
How much is that?
The Federal Government’s 2017 Cli-
mate Science Special Report from
NOAA, NASA, the Department of En-
ergy, and others found that the oceans
had absorbed more than 9 zettajoules of
heat energy per year.
What is a zettajoule?
A zettajoule is 9 billion trillion
joules. They are not jewels like your
grandmother’s earrings. They are
joules as a measure of energy.
From 1998 to 2015, the oceans had ab-
sorbed more than 9 billion trillion
joules. That is a rate of more than 12
times the total energy use of humans
on the planet. If you want a more vig-
orous, a more kinetic description of
what that heat load is like, visualize
the power of a Hiroshima-style atomic
bomb with its classic mushroom cloud
erupting into the sky. Imagine all of
that energy from that nuclear blast
being captured just as heat. Now imag-
ine four Hiroshima-sized atomic bombs
exploding every second. That is the ex-
cess heat that is going into our oceans
from climate change—more than four
atomic bombs’ worth of excess heat en-
ergy being absorbed by the oceans
every second of every day of every
year. That is a lot of heat energy, and
adding it to the oceans has con-
sequences.
The global average ocean surface
temperature was already up around 0.8
degrees Celsius, or 1.5 degrees Fahr-
enheit, since before the carbon pollu-
tion of industrial times began, and the
rate is accelerating. According to
NOAA, ‘‘the global land and ocean tem-
perature departure from average has
reached new record highs five times
since 2000.’’
The rapid rise in ocean temperatures
is forcing species that were once south-
ern New England icons to abandon our
waters for cooler, deeper, northerner
seas. A 2018 NOAA-funded study warned
that hundreds of commercially valu-
able species are being forced northward
as oceans warm.
For Rhode Island, squid is now king.
In 2017, around 60 percent of the longfin
squid and 63 percent of northern
shortfin squid caught in the United
States were landed in Rhode Island.
According to NOAA, Rhode Island’s
share of the catch was valued at over
$28 million. In my State, that is a big
deal. Remember, that is just the land-
ing value. That is not the surrounding
economic value. Climate change is put-
ting that—our precious calamari—at
risk. Squid is Rhode Island’s most val-
uable fishery with its having accounted
for nearly 30 percent of all of our
States’ landings, by value, in 2017.
Rhode Island once had a booming lob-
ster fishery. The lobster population
shifted north as our waters warmed,
and it left Rhode Island’s lobster traps
empty. NOAA reports what we already
know: ‘‘The lobster industry in New
York and southern New England has
nearly collapsed.’’ Maine is tempo-
rarily benefiting from the northern
movement of lobster, but the lobster is
expected to keep moving north, into
Canada, as we keep warming the
oceans.
In January, the Washington Post ran
this amazing piece as part of its ‘‘Gone
in a Generation’’ series. It featured the
stories of Rhode Island and Maine
lobstermen who deal with our changing
ocean.
New England’s fishermen also see de-
clining shellfish populations. The total
landings for eastern oysters, northern
quahogs, soft-shell clams, and northern
bay scallops all declined 85 percent be-
tween 1980 and 2010. NOAA’s Northeast
Fisheries Science Center identified
warming ocean temperatures as the
culprit.
As climate change warms the oceans,
all of that excess CO2 in the atmos-
phere chemically acidifies the oceans
as 90 percent of the heat is absorbed by
the oceans and 30 percent of the CO2 is
chemically absorbed by the oceans—
out of the atmosphere and into the
seas. It acidifies the oceans, and for
many species, that is a double wham-
my. Sea scallops were one of the Na-
tion’s most valuable fisheries and Con-
necticut’s most valuable species in 2017
landings. So let’s look at that one.
Ocean acidification and warming
both trouble sea scallops. Scallops and
other shellfish extract calcium car-
bonate from ocean waters around them
in order to build their shells. Acidic
waters decrease the chemical avail-
ability of that compound, and if you
actually get it high enough, you actu-
ally dissolve the shells of living crea-
tures. In 2018, the Woods Hole Oceano-
graphic Institution warned that ocean
acidification ‘‘could reduce the sea
scallop population by more than 50 per-
cent in the next 30 to 80 years under a
worst-case scenario.’’
While we in the Senate struggle to
free our Chamber from the remorseless
political grip of the fossil fuel indus-
try, our fishermen pay the price. The
oceans are warming too fast for us to
respond to rapid changes in fish stocks.
So, in our States, black sea bass and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.004 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4500 June 25, 2019
summer flounder—both species men-
tioned by Senator BLUMENTHAL—are
poster children for this disconnect.
He mentioned his fisherman Bobby
Guzzo in the article from Greenwire,
and Rhode Island’s fishermen are tell-
ing me exactly the same thing. The
Science Director for NOAA’s Northeast
Fisheries Science Center says, ‘‘Much
of our management assumes that con-
ditions in the future will be the same
as they have been in the past,’’ but
that is no longer true. We are already
so off base from historical trends and
data that we can no longer rely on that
history to forecast where fish popu-
lations will be.
So black sea bass and summer floun-
der head north toward cooler waters
from the Mid-Atlantic States, which
used to be the home base. You would
think, as they did, that it would make
sense for the catch allocations of that
fish to move northward with them. The
blue is the base of where most of the
black sea bass food stock existed back
in the seventies. Up here is the base
right now. That is the Chesapeake Bay.
There is Rhode Island—there at the
hook of Cape Cod in Massachusetts.
It is a big move up into our space,
but did the catch limits move up with
it? No. Southern States were unwilling
to give up their quotas, which left our
fishermen in Connecticut and Rhode Is-
land to fish our northeast waters with
an abundant catch they couldn’t har-
vest. Imagine the frustration as Rhode
Island, Connecticut, and other New
England States don’t have a vote on a
critical fishery management council
that makes this decision to put our
fishermen at a severe disadvantage to
fight for their right to the fish that are
now settling up here in southern New
England. Our fishermen have to throw
back valuable fish from lobster pots
and from nets because our fisheries’
management rules haven’t caught up
with their ocean reality.
We have to update how we manage
these shifting fish stocks as climate
change moves fish populations around.
We must speed research and catch lim-
its to match what fishermen actually
see in the water. Our fishermen and our
coastal economies depend on it.
I am very grateful to Senator
BLUMENTHAL, my outstanding col-
league from Connecticut, for joining
me today. Together, we will continue
to fight for a day when our Rhode Is-
land and Connecticut fishermen can
foresee their children and grand-
children continuing their long tradi-
tion of fishing the seas.
We strive for meaningful action on
climate change and ocean acidifica-
tion, for updated fisheries and climate
modeling, and for improvements on
how we manage these stocks. To save
our seas and to save our fishing econo-
mies, we must wake up to the threat of
climate change and respond to these
consequences that real fishermen are
seeing in their real nets and boats
every single day.
I yield the floor.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ator from Connecticut and I be allowed
to engage in a brief colloquy.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
after that eloquence, I hesitate to even
add anything, but the urgency of his
plea and the need to hear the voices of
these fishermen brings to mind this
photograph, which was taken from the
Greenwire article. In fact, it is of a
boat in Stonington Harbor during a
visit by President Trump in 2017 to the
Coast Guard Academy in New London.
The banner on this boat reads: ‘‘Please
help us.’’
We need help for the fishermen of our
Nation, whether they be in Louisiana
or Rhode Island or Connecticut, be-
cause of this completely obsolete, ob-
scenely outdated system that is depriv-
ing them of decent livelihoods, depriv-
ing our Nation of sufficient fish nutri-
tion, and depriving our Nation and our
world of an end to climate change.
I would ask my colleague from Rhode
Island very briefly, does he believe that
the administration is heeding that
message, not only behalf of the fisher-
men of Stonington in Connecticut—
please help us—but on behalf of the
planet to please help us stop global
warming and climate change? Is this
administration acting sufficiently?
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Well, clearly,
when it comes to climate change, this
administration is embarrassing itself
and our country with the factually and
scientifically preposterous claims that
they make, and the nonsense denial
that they continue to propagate is
going to be, I think, a lasting blot on
our country, as the rest of the world
looks to us for leadership and sees in-
stead more fossil-fuel-funded denial
and treacherous political behavior by
the industry that guides, very often,
the hands of people in government. So
from that point of view, it is a com-
plete train wreck.
From the point of view of helping the
fishing communities, they have actu-
ally been taking it on the chin for a
while. I will say a good word for the
fishing communities. I think they have
really tried to do their best. When we
asked the fishing community to con-
sider moving to a catch shares type of
regulatory model, a lot of them didn’t
like it, but a number of them tried it,
and they realized they actually could
make it work and it actually improved
their business prospects. So that move
has been one that has not been easy for
them to make, but more and more they
have made it, and they have been able
to see how it works better for them to
be able to share catches.
If somebody is out at sea having a
great day, instead of having to go back
in, they can get on the radio to some-
body and say: I am having a great day
out here. It is cheap for me to stay out
here. I will keep fishing if you will give
me some of your catch. You can stay
home. And they work out the deal over
the radio.
That has been a good thing, but,
again, it is not easy for them. And they
have also really stepped up, as Senator
BLUMENTHAL knows so well, in our re-
gional ocean planning, the offshore
planning. The fishermen have come
forward, and they have participated.
They have been, I think, very fair and
productive.
Unfortunately, the manner in which
the Obama administration rolled out
the offshore marine monument was a
bit of a blow to the trust that had been
developed, but they had participated in
good faith. I have good things to say
about what our fishing community has
tried to do to keep up.
But no matter what you try to do as
a fisherman, if you have an abundance
of black sea bass—if it is so abundant
that it is going into lobster pots to eat
the bait and you are pulling up black
sea bass in lobster pots, if you are pull-
ing it up in your trawls—and you find
that you can’t keep this fish, you could
go to the dock and you could sell it for
several dollars but, no, you are obliged
to throw it overboard because you
can’t bring it in. It has already been
probably a little bit compromised, par-
ticularly if it has been caught in the
trawl. So it is not likely to survive
very long when you put it back in the
water. So you are not really helping
anybody by throwing it in. You know it
is valuable. You know there are a lot of
them. You know you are throwing
them back injured or having difficulty
surviving or, very often, dead. I have
seen them just go twirling down
through the water. You wonder, who is
looking out for me, because this does
not make sense? This does not make
sense.
The science supports what they are
saying. NOAA has known for a very
long time that this black see bass pop-
ulation was moving northward. This
was only 2014. It is even further north
from there.
Nothing is more frustrating than not
being taken seriously, and I think we
need to take the concerns of our fisher-
men seriously. Of course, one way to do
that is to take climate change seri-
ously and not listen to this nonsense
about it being a Chinese hoax and not
have a bunch of really creepy
eccentrics from the climate denial
stooge community brought into gov-
ernment and actually given positions
as if they were legitimate.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
thank the Senator from Rhode Island
and I look forward to coming back to
the floor with him and expanding on
this colloquy in the future. I will be a
proud partner of his in advocating for
the measures, and I join him in prais-
ing our fishing community because
they have stood strong in the face of
adversity.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President,
let me conclude by thanking Senator
BLUMENTHAL for his leadership on this
issue. Our fishing communities have a
powerful voice in Senator BLUMENTHAL.
He has worked with them for many,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:07 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.041 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4501
June 25, 2019
many years in the Senate and before,
when he was attorney general. It is a
great honor for me to share the floor of
the Senate with him today.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO CHANSE JONES
Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President,
today I want to recognize my deputy
communications director, Chanse
Jones, who is leav1ng my office in
early July after more than 4 years of
service to the State of Nebraska and to
me.
Although he is a Mississippian by
birth, Chanse has become an adopted
son of Nebraska. He started with me in
Washington as a press assistant in 2015.
I quickly learned he was someone with
a big personality, big ideas, and a lot of
creativity, so I promoted him to the
role of deputy press secretary. He
worked hard, and it wasn’t long before
he became my press secretary and then
my deputy communications director.
As the years went by, Chanse came to
love and be loved by so many commu-
nities across the State of Nebraska. He
joined me for many road trips all
across the Good Life. These trips took
us from Omaha to Scottsbluff, to my
ranch outside of Valentine, to the
northeast part of the state, and many
places between—the stories he could
tell about our ‘‘adventures.’’
During these journeys, Chanse en-
deared himself to Nebraskans with his
charming nature. He is a delight, and
he made friends just about everywhere
he went. While on the road, he also
captured Nebraska’s beauty in many
ways, including through wonderful
photographs that I will forever cherish.
When carrying out his job respon-
sibilities whether in Nebraska or in
Washington, Chanse always brought a
sense of fun to every task. He has been
a dear friend to me and a fierce pro-
tector. He is also an original ‘‘Friend of
Fred’’ and godparent of my
goldendoodle, Fred Fischer. In fact, he
helped us find Fred and was with us
when we rescued him a few years ago.
The three of us, Fred, my husband
Bruce, and I, are certainly going to
miss Chanse’s company.
I want to thank Chanse for his
friendship and his service to the people
of Nebraska over the years. I wish him
all the best in this next chapter of his
career, and I am excited to see what
life has in store for him.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO JOHN MANCHESTER
∑ Mrs. CAPITO. Madam President,
today I wish to recognize a friend and
fellow public servant of the great State
of West Virginia, John Manchester, as
Friday marks his retirement from 16
years of service as the mayor of
Lewisburg, WV. Under John’s leader-
ship, the city of Lewisburg has endured
tough times, yet still flourishes as one
of the cultural epicenters for our State,
nestled deep in the rolling hills of Ap-
palachia and the mighty Greenbrier
River.
Although Mayor Manchester is not a
native West Virginian, the love for this
State has rooted itself deep within
him. After graduating from Brown Uni-
versity, he packed his bags for Morgan-
town, WV, and became a Mountaineer
as he accepted a research assistantship
with West Virginia University. How-
ever, it wasn’t until 1982 that these
country roads called John and his wife
Connie home to the Greenbrier River
Valley, when they settled in the small
town of Renick, WV.
John and his family began to grow
into the fabric of the small town with
only 200 residents. First, they started
their own sawmill and entered the tim-
ber business. The harsh West Virginia
winter forced John to reconsider his
line of work, and he took a job as an
editor with a newspaper, the Moun-
taineer Messenger. From there, John’s
desire to give back to the community
that had given so much to him and his
family took over, and he accepted the
vacated mayor position in Renick. It
would be this experience with local
government that would inspire John to
run for mayor of Lewisburg when his
family moved in 2003.
Sixteen years later, Mayor Man-
chester still calls Lewisburg the best
small town in West Virginia. I truly be-
lieve in John’s vision and dedication
for Lewisburg and can personally at-
test to how special of a place that this
town is. One can sense a deep com-
munal bond in this locale, which is a
direct result of the strong character of
its people and the examples set by its
leadership.
Leadership begins and ends with
service. Mayor Manchester is someone
who exemplifies service, not only by
his words, but by how he lives his life
every day. Three years ago, Greenbrier
County experienced an historic flood,
and while Lewisburg experienced its
share of high water, it was spared the
widespread devastation that hit the
nearby towns of White Sulphur Springs
and Rainelle. Once Lewisburg was safe
and sound, the residents, under the
leadership of John Manchester, pulled
together and took care of their neigh-
bors throughout the Greenbrier Valley.
I appreciate and commend the leader-
ship Mayor Manchester showed during
that difficult time and throughout his
tenure as mayor.
Mayor Manchester has many accom-
plishments over the past 16 years of
service as the mayor of Lewisburg. On
a personal note, I would like to thank
John for his kindness to my staff and
me during our many interactions over
the years. The people of Lewisburg are
very fortunate John Manchester chose
to live in West Virginia and serve its
residents through his constant devo-
tion, truly making this State and his
city a better place to live. I wish him
well in his retirement. It is truly an
honor to call you friend and fellow
West Virginian.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ANDREA ‘‘ANDY’’
PENDLETON
∑ Mrs. CAPITO. Madam President,
today I wish to honor my friend and
the first woman mayor of the town of
Rainelle, WV, Andrea ‘‘Andy’’ Pen-
dleton. Mayor Andy, as her friends call
her, has served the town of Rainelle
and Greenbrier County for the past 8
years, standing tall in the face of ad-
versity and some of the toughest times
that the Greenbrier River Valley has
ever experienced. As the first woman
elected to the Senate from West Vir-
ginia, I greatly admire Andy’s initia-
tive and her desire to give back to her
community through public service.
Growing up in West Virginia teaches
you to be tough, it teaches you to be
respectful, and it teaches you take care
of those around you. I know by Mayor
Andy’s character and her desire to help
others that she holds those same West
Virginia values close to her heart. To
this day, Andy credits many of the
positive qualities she possesses to the
time she spent growing up in her fam-
ily’s discount food store, working 7
days a week. Little did she know that
these fundamental lessons were build-
ing her into the leader that the town of
Rainelle desperately needed.
The historic floods that ripped
through West Virginia in June of 2016
devastated Rainelle, with almost 90
percent of homes and businesses rav-
aged by the flood water. Out of the 23
West Virginians we lost on that day,
five of them were members of the
Rainelle community. Mayor Andy was
on the scene immediately and worked
tirelessly in the days and months fol-
lowing the flood. From moving logs
and rocks, alerting first responders,
and keeping the community together,
she dove directly into the flood relief
process and led by example. She was
tireless.
The impact that Mayor Andy has had
on her community will be felt for far
longer than her tenure as mayor. She
was the driving force in securing funds
to construct a new water system that
efficiently supplies clean drinking
water to the people of her town. In ad-
dition, she has also worked to replace
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:56 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.042 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4502 June 25, 2019
aging sidewalks, as well as other beau-
tification and community development
projects including the Meadow River
Trail. Even now, in her final days in of-
fice, Mayor Andy continues her tireless
work for Rainelle and its recovery.
Mayor Andy and the people of
Rainelle inspire me. I am incredibly
appreciative of the selfless leadership
that Mayor Andy exhibits with her ac-
tions, and I hope that it further in-
spires young women in her community
and across our State to rise up and be
leaders and influential voices in their
community. The town of Rainelle’s
motto has never been so fitting and
true, largely in part to Mayor Andy:
‘‘A Town Built to Carry On.’’ On behalf
of the people of the great State of West
Virginia, I thank Mayor Andy Pen-
dleton for her service to Rainelle. It is
truly an honor to call her a colleague
and a friend.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JOHN SCHMIDT
∑ Mrs. CAPITO. Madam President, I
wish to recognize a dedicated public
servant and proud West Virginian,
John Schmidt, on the occasion of his
retirement from the West Virginia Ec-
ological Services Field Office, WVFO,
of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
located in Elkins. I would especially
like to recognize his leadership and
contributions to fish and wildlife con-
servation. Innumerable West Vir-
ginians have benefited from his tireless
efforts to improve wildlife conditions
in our great State. John has been a
vocal champion for creating a con-
servation legacy through collaboration
and strong working partnerships with
local stakeholders.
John has been working as a biologist
for 32 years. For 25 of those, he has
served the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice, working with landowners and
State and Federal agencies. Currently,
he helps nongovernmental organiza-
tions as a project leader to help re-
store, enhance, and protect fish and
wildlife throughout our state.
Due to his leadership, contributions,
and dedication to his community, John
is being awarded the Superior Service
Award by the U.S. Department of Inte-
rior. John has highlighted the need for
providing restoring wildlife and rec-
reational safety for West Virginians.
Beyond the critical assistance that
the WVFO provides to the wildlife in
West Virginia, it also has a positive ef-
fect on the economy. John and his staff
volunteered numerous hours on a
project to remove three legacy dams,
leading to savings of nearly $60,000 per
year for the municipal water system
and its ratepayers. This work helped
connect over 47 miles of formerly seg-
mented river and drastically improved
the water quality in the West Fork
River.
Outside of his work for the WVFO,
John has played an active role in giv-
ing back to his community. Some of
his volunteer work has included time
spent helping community leadership
and conservation organizations such as
the Tygart Valley Lions Club, Ducks
Unlimited, Trout Unlimited, and the
Virginia Tech Monogram Club. He has
also served as a swim coach and official
for 30 years at all primary school lev-
els. John has shown that he is dedi-
cated to help all West Virginians in nu-
merous efforts.
I would like to thank John for all his
insight and advice over the years. My
office has relied upon him countless
times for guidance and input. On a per-
sonal level, he was kind and helpful not
only to me, but to my staff as well.
They often spoke highly of how atten-
tive, patient, and kind he was to every-
one with whom he worked. I wish John
the very best during his well-deserved
retirement, and I hope he can enjoy
more time with loved ones. West Vir-
ginia owes John our gratitude, and I
thank him for all his excellent work
over his decades-long career.∑
f
REMEMBERING JAMES A. ‘‘BUD’’
CODY
∑ Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President,
today, I am honored to recognize in the
RECORD the life of James A. ’Bud’’
Cody, who selflessly served Georgians
for decades and recently passed away
in Ocean Springs, MS.
Bud Cody was born in Willachoochee,
GA., on November 27, 1938. From an
early age, he loved being active, find-
ing friends, and making a difference.
He played on the legendary Valdosta
High School football team under his
mentor, Coach Wright Bazemore. He
was part of the State winning 4x4 track
relay team.
Bud started his career at a young
age, working full time at the Boys Club
in Valdosta, GA, at the age of 18. He at-
tended college at night over the next
several years while helping his wife
care for their children.
After graduating and establishing
Boys Club facilities from Louisiana to
Texas, Bud was hired by the Georgia
Sheriffs’ Association as their first ex-
ecutive director and returned home to
Georgia in 1966. His career with the
sheriffs’ association also included his
becoming director of the Georgia Sher-
iffs’ Youth Homes located at the Boys
Ranch in Hahira, GA. Bud continued to
serve in these roles for the next 46
years. As executive director, he also as-
sumed control of the Sheriffs’ Retire-
ment Fund of Georgia, leading the or-
ganization’s assets from $9 million in
1982 to more than $97 million to take
care of Georgia’s retired sheriffs.
Bud retired in September 2012 with
many lasting accomplishments thanks
to his principled leadership and values.
He expanded the Georgia Sheriffs’
Youth Homes to provide a safe haven
and education opportunities for thou-
sands of Georgia’s abused, abandoned,
and neglected children. He also led the
initiative to establish the Georgia
Sheriffs’ Youth Homes Foundation,
which provides ongoing funds for its
youth homes.
Our public safety officers also have
Bud to thank for the excellent training
they receive to help keep them safe
while protecting Georgians. Bud be-
lieved that every officer should receive
the best training possible, so he helped
found the Georgia Public Safety Train-
ing Center in Forsyth, GA, working
with State leaders, criminal justice
practitioners, and sheriffs to establish
a world-class public safety training fa-
cility that trains more than 2,000 stu-
dents daily. Over the course of his ca-
reer, nine Georgia Governors routinely
sought his advice and counsel.
Bud’s reach went beyond Georgia,
too. He helped establish the National
Sheriff’s Association Committee of
Presidents and Executive Directors in
1980 to ensure the office of sheriff had
a professional code and standards.
Bud joined his friend and business
partner Claude Grizzard to form the
company CFR. In all, they provided as-
sistance to more than 30 States from
New York to Texas to California, rais-
ing tens of millions of dollars for the
purpose of helping officers and youth
homes nationwide. If you ever see a car
tag from a State sheriff’s association,
this is thanks to the efforts of Bud and
Claude.
Bud was beloved by his family. He
was preceded in life by his father,
Homer Cody, mother, Mellie Cody, and
daughter, Celena Cody, and survived by
his children, James A. ‘‘Buddy’’ Cody,
Jr., Derek Marchman, daughter-in-law
Kel Marchman, Camille Hormell, son-
in-law Rodger Hormell, and Amy
Asbell. His grandchildren include Wes-
ley Leverett, Sara Cody, Laura Cody,
Bryan Cronan, Austin Hormell, Quaid
Hormell, Cody Kitchens, Seth Kitch-
ens, Sara Marchman, Jamie Cody,
Maggie Cody, and Wyatt Asbell. Great-
grandchildren include Abigail Kitch-
ens, Maddox Kitchens, Lucas Kitchens,
and Grayson Kitchens.
Most fittingly, a public memorial
will be held at the Public Safety Train-
ing Center in Forsyth, GA, on July 13
before his ashes are spread by his fam-
ily on his beloved St. Simons Island. As
we remember the life and work of Bud
Cody, we send prayers to his family
and all those whose lives were touched
by his mission.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO SUMMER
HOLTZHOWER
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today
I honor Summer Holtzhower, the Sum-
ter County Teacher of the Year from
Wildwood Elementary School in Wild-
wood, FL.
Summer, a 4th grade math and
science teacher, just completed her
second year and designs her classroom
activities to challenge her students.
She has a teaching activity called the
Density Lab, where students experi-
ment with placing certain liquids in
measuring cups and hypothesize where
they think the liquids will settle. Stu-
dents then test to see if their hypoth-
esis are correct and answer Summer’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:56 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.005 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4503
June 25, 2019
‘‘higher order thinking’’ questions
about their lab results.
Summer, who believes that one of her
goals as an educator is to make her
students feel valued, does this by en-
couraging her students to participate
in days such as National Compliment
Day. She believes that events like this
will allow her students to feel empow-
ered and know that they are capable of
success in the future.
I offer my best wishes to Summer
and look forward to hearing of her con-
tinued success in the years ahead.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO LINDA HOWELL
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today
I honor Linda Howell, the Taylor Coun-
ty Teacher of the Year from Taylor
County High School in Perry, FL.
Linda has a strong belief that every
student can learn and succeed, but it
takes an entire community to support
that success. Her peers take note of her
dedication to being a part of a team at
her school.
A 1987 graduate from Florida State
University, Linda previously worked
for Proctor and Gamble, helping to de-
velop its employee assistance program
and was a member of its Foley Impact
Team. She was also previously a home
educator and substitute teacher.
Linda has great experience as an edu-
cator, spending many years cultivating
an esteemed and diverse resume. Linda
currently teaches 9th and 10th grade
English, and has spent 8 years with the
Taylor County Public School District.
She also intermittently teaches at her
local Boys and Girls Club in its after-
school and summer programs.
I offer my best wishes to Linda and
look forward to hearing of her contin-
ued good work in the years to come.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:26 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 2109. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, in awarding a contract for
the procurement of goods or services, to give
a preference to offerers that employ vet-
erans.
H.R. 2196. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to reduce the credit hour re-
quirement for the Edith Nourse Rogers
STEM Scholarship program of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
At 3:31 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bill:
H.R. 559. An act to amend section 6 of the
Joint Resolution entitled ‘‘A Joint Resolu-
tion to approve the Covenant To Establish a
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands in Political Union with the United
States of America, and for other purposes’’.
The enrolled bill was subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 2109. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, in awarding a contract for
the procurement of goods or services, to give
a preference to offerors that employ vet-
erans; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
H.R. 2196. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to reduce the credit hour re-
quirement for the Edith Nourse Rogers
STEM Scholarship program of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1743. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of General Paul
J. Selva, United States Air Force, and his
advancement to the grade of general on the
retired list; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–1744. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Methods for Calcu-
lating W–2 Wages for Purposes of Section
199A(g)’’ (Notice 2019–27) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on June
20, 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–1745. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Contributions in
Exchange for State or Local Tax Credits’’
(RIN1545–BO89) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on June 20, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–1746. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Modification of
Discounting Rules for Insurance Companies’’
(RIN1545–BO50) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on June 20, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–1747. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘2019 Marginal Pro-
duction Rates’’ (Notice 2019–38) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
June 20, 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–1748. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Electing Small
Business Trusts with Nonresident Aliens as
Potential Current Beneficiaries’’ (RIN1545–
BO93) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on June 20, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–1749. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Limitation on De-
duction for Dividends Received from Certain
Foreign Corporations and Amounts Eligible
for Section 954 Look-Through Exception’’
(RIN1545–BO64) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on June 20, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–1750. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Health Reimburse-
ment Arrangements and Other Account-
Based Group Health Plans’’ (RIN1545–BO46)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on June 20, 2019; to the Committee on
Finance.
EC–1751. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0044 - 2019–0047); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–1752. A communication from the Dep-
uty General Counsel, Office of General Coun-
sel, Department of Education, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Supplement Not Supplant Under Title I,
Part A of the Elementary and Secondary
Education Act of 1965, as Amended by the
Every Student Succeeds Act’’ received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on June
24, 2019; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–1753. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Employee Benefits Security
Administration, Department of Labor, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Health Reimbursement Arrange-
ments and Other Account-Based Group
Health Plans’’ (RIN0938–AT90) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on June 14,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–1754. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–59, ‘‘Primary Date Alteration
Temporary Amendment Act of 2019’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–1755. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Ohio River, Miles 90.8 to 91.4,
Wheeling, WV’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0364)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on June 21, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1756. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Ohio River, Miles 110.5 to
111.5, Moundsville, WV’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0451)) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on June 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1757. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Lower Mississippi River, Port
Gibson, MS’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0440)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on June 21, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1758. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Lower Mississippi River, Ohio
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.008 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4504 June 25, 2019
River, and Upper Mississippi River, Bird’s
Point-New Madrid Floodway’’ ((RIN1625–
AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0123)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on June
21, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1759. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Upper Mississippi River, Mile
Markers 614 to 615.5, Guttenberg, IA’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0285)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on June 21, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1760. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Corpus Christi Ship Channel,
Corpus Christi, TX’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0509)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on June 21, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 1333. A bill to amend the Improper Pay-
ments Elimination and Recovery Improve-
ment Act of 2012, including making changes
to the Do Not Pay Initiative, for improved
detection, prevention, and recovery of im-
proper payments to deceased individuals, and
for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–49).
H.R. 1079. A bill to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget to
issue guidance on electronic consent forms,
and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–50).
f
EXECUTIVE REPORT OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive report of a
nomination was submitted:
By Mr. RISCH for the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
Eliot Pedrosa, of Florida, to be United
States Executive Director of the Inter-Amer-
ican Development Bank for a term of three
years.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN:
S. 1950. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to return the estate, gift,
and generation skipping transfer tax to 2009
levels, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr.
HAWLEY):
S. 1951. A bill to require the Securities and
Exchange Commission to promulgate regula-
tions relating to the disclosure of certain
commercial data, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 1952. A bill to amend the Richard B. Rus-
sell National School Lunch Act to establish
a program for the procurement of domesti-
cally grown unprocessed fruits and vegeta-
bles to provide healthier school meals, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Ag-
riculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Ms.
BALDWIN):
S. 1953. A bill to amend the Commodity Ex-
change Act to extend the jurisdiction of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
include the setting of reference prices for
aluminum premiums, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BOOZMAN,
and Mrs. CAPITO):
S. 1954. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint commemorative coins
in recognition of the 75th anniversary of the
integration of baseball; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MURPHY, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. SANDERS):
S. 1955. A bill to ensure that certain mate-
rials used in carrying out Federal infrastruc-
ture aid programs are made in the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. CARDIN, and Mr. BROWN):
S. 1956. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the qualified con-
tract exception to the extended low-income
housing commitment rules for purposes of
the low-income housing credit, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. REED, Ms. WARREN,
and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 1957. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for an invest-
ment tax credit related to the production of
electricity from offshore wind; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr.
CASSIDY):
S. 1958. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a credit against
tax for disaster mitigation expenditures; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms.
HARRIS):
S. 1959. A bill to expand and improve the
Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program
to ensure legal assistance is provided for sur-
vivors in proceedings related to domestic vi-
olence and sexual assault, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and
Ms. COLLINS):
S. 1960. A bill to amend title XI of the So-
cial Security Act to improve the quality,
health outcomes, and value of maternity
care under the Medicaid and CHIP programs
by developing maternity care quality meas-
ures and supporting maternity care quality
collaboratives; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
RUBIO):
S. 1961. A bill to amend the Truth in Lend-
ing Act to prohibit certain unfair credit
practices, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
WARNER, and Mr. JONES):
S. 1962. A bill to prevent foreign adver-
saries from influencing elections by prohib-
iting foreign nationals from purchasing at
any time a broadcast, cable, or satellite
communications that mentions a clearly
identified candidate for Federal office, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 1963. A bill to require the purchase of do-
mestically made flags of the United States of
America for use by the Federal Government;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. CANTWELL,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SCHATZ, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 1964. A bill to support educational enti-
ties in fully implementing title IX and re-
ducing and preventing sex discrimination in
all areas of education, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 1965. A bill to authorize actions with re-
spect to foreign countries engaged in illicit
trade in tobacco products or their precur-
sors, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr.
CRAMER, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Ms.
ERNST, and Mr. DAINES):
S. 1966. A bill to prohibit Federal funding
to entities that do not certify the entities
will not perform, or provide any funding to
any other entity that performs, an abortion;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Ms.
ERNST):
S. 1967. A bill to promote innovative ap-
proaches to outdoor recreation on Federal
land and to increase opportunities for col-
laboration with non-Federal partners, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mr.
SCHATZ, and Mr. MORAN):
S. 1968. A bill to amend the National Tele-
communications and Information Adminis-
tration Organization Act to provide for nec-
essary payments from the Spectrum Reloca-
tion Fund for costs of spectrum research and
development and planning activities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 1969. A bill to authorize the Fallen Jour-
nalists Memorial Foundation to establish a
commemorative work in the District of Co-
lumbia and its environs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. REED, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. CARDIN,
Ms. SMITH, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. CANTWELL,
Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. CASEY,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. COONS, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. PETERS, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MARKEY, Ms.
ROSEN, Mr. UDALL, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
and Mr. LEAHY):
S. 1970. A bill to secure the rights of public
employees to organize, act concertedly, and
bargain collectively, which safeguard the
public interest and promote the free and un-
obstructed flow of commerce, and for other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:56 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.012 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4505
June 25, 2019
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions .
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and
Mr. MARKEY):
S. 1971. A bill to require auto dealers to fix
outstanding safety recalls before selling,
leasing, or loaning a used motor vehicle; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. BENNET:
S. 1972. A bill to create a more representa-
tive and accountable Congress by prohibiting
partisan gerrymandering and ensuring that
any redistricting of congressional district
boundaries results in fair, effective, and ac-
countable representation for all people; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. ROM-
NEY):
S. 1973. A bill to require the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency to
establish a program under which the Admin-
istrator shall defer the designation of an
area as a nonattainment area for purposes of
the 8-hour ozone national ambient air qual-
ity standard if the area achieves and main-
tains certain standards under a voluntary
early action compact plan, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BRAUN (for himself, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. JONES):
S. Res. 263. A resolution honoring the 100th
anniversary of The American Legion; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. CARPER, Mr. COONS, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. KAINE, Mr. BROWN, and Ms.
HARRIS):
S. Res. 264. A resolution recognizing the
contributions of African Americans to the
musical heritage of the United States and
the need for greater access to music edu-
cation for African-American students, and
expressing support for the designation of
June as African-American Music Apprecia-
tion Month; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 170
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. KAINE) and the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. BOOKER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 170, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to limit
the amount of certain qualified con-
servation contributions.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 203, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently
extend the railroad track maintenance
credit, and for other purposes.
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 206, a bill to award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal to the female
telephone operators of the Army Signal
Corps, known as the ‘‘Hello Girls’’.
S. 239
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, his name
was added as a cosponsor of S. 239, a
bill to require the Secretary of the
Treasury to mint coins in recognition
of Christa McAuliffe.
S. 377
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 377, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to require the
Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices to negotiate prices of prescription
drugs furnished under part D of the
Medicare program.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 433, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to improve
home health payment reforms under
the Medicare program.
S. 510
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 510, a bill to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 to provide
for certain requirements relating to
charges for internet, television, and
voice services, and for other purposes.
S. 546
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) and the Senator from
New Mexico (Mr. UDALL) were added as
cosponsors of S. 546, a bill to extend au-
thorization for the September 11th Vic-
tim Compensation Fund of 2001
through fiscal year 2090, and for other
purposes.
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 546, supra.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
638, a bill to require the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy to designate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 727
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 727, a
bill to combat international extremism
by addressing global fragility and vio-
lence and stabilizing conflict-affected
areas, and for other purposes.
S. 756
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
756, a bill to modify the prohibition on
recognition by United States courts of
certain rights relating to certain
marks, trade names, or commercial
names.
S. 785
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 785, a bill to improve
mental health care provided by the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, and for
other purposes.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 880, a bill to provide out-
reach and reporting on comprehensive
Alzheimer’s disease care planning serv-
ices furnished under the Medicare pro-
gram.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 901, a bill to amend the
Older Americans Act of 1965 to support
individuals with younger onset Alz-
heimer’s disease.
S. 988
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
988, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to prohibit pre-
scription drug plan sponsors and MA–
PD organizations under the Medicare
program from retroactively reducing
payment on clean claims submitted by
pharmacies.
S. 997
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
997, a bill to recognize and honor the
service of individuals who served in the
United States Cadet Nurse Corps dur-
ing World War II, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1014
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1014, a bill to establish the Route
66 Centennial Commission, and for
other purposes.
S. 1032
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1032, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the defini-
tion of income for purposes of deter-
mining the tax-exempt status of cer-
tain corporations.
S. 1081
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1081, a bill to amend title
54, United States Code, to provide per-
manent, dedicated funding for the Land
and Water Conservation Fund, and for
other purposes.
S. 1102
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.029 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4506 June 25, 2019
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1102, a bill to promote security and en-
ergy partnerships in the Eastern Medi-
terranean, and for other purposes.
S. 1107
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1107, a bill to require a review of
women and lung cancer, and for other
purposes.
S. 1148
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1148, a bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration to give preferential consider-
ation to individuals who have success-
fully completed air traffic controller
training and veterans when hiring air
traffic control specialists.
S. 1539
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1539, a bill to amend the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 to pro-
vide funding to secure nonprofit facili-
ties from terrorist attacks, and for
other purposes.
S. 1564
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1564, a bill to require the Secu-
rities and Exchange Commission and
certain Federal agencies to carry out a
study relating to accounting standards,
and for other purposes.
S. 1596
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1596, a bill to impose a moratorium
on large agribusiness, food and bev-
erage manufacturing, and grocery re-
tail mergers, and to establish a com-
mission to review large agriculture,
food and beverage manufacturing, and
grocery retail mergers, concentration,
and market power.
S. 1630
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN), the Sen-
ator from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO), the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from Rhode
Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE), the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND), the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN), the Sen-
ator from New Mexico (Mr. UDALL), the
Senator from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN),
the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr.
MARKEY), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY), the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) and the Senator from
California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1630, a bill to amend
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934
to require shareholder authorization
before a public company may make
certain political expenditures, and for
other purposes.
S. 1793
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1793, a bill to establish a
grant program for the purpose of public
health data system modernization.
S. 1920
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1920, a bill to establish
jobs programs for long-term unem-
ployed workers, and for other purposes.
S. 1929
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1929, a bill to prohibit
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development from limiting the eligi-
bility of DACA recipients for certain
assistance, and for other purposes.
S. 1945
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) were added as cosponsors of
S. 1945, a bill to amend section 36 of the
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C.
2776) to preserve congressional review
and oversight of foreign arms sales,
and for other purposes.
S. RES. 34
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 34, a resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the Govern-
ments of Burma and Bangladesh ensure
the safe, dignified, voluntary, and sus-
tainable return of the Rohingya refu-
gees who have been displaced by the
campaign of ethnic cleansing con-
ducted by the Burmese military and to
immediately release unjustly impris-
oned journalists, Wa Lone and Kyaw
Soe Oo.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 120, a resolution op-
posing efforts to delegitimize the State
of Israel and the Global Boycott, Di-
vestment, and Sanctions Movement
targeting Israel.
S. RES. 188
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO)
was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 188,
a resolution encouraging a swift trans-
fer of power by the military to a civil-
ian-led political authority in the Re-
public of the Sudan, and for other pur-
poses.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 252, a resolution desig-
nating September 2019 as National De-
mocracy Month as a time to reflect on
the contributions of the system of gov-
ernment of the United States to a more
free and stable world.
S. RES. 260
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from Illi-
nois (Ms. DUCKWORTH) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 260, a resolution
recognizing the importance of sus-
tained United States leadership to ac-
celerating global progress against ma-
ternal and child malnutrition and sup-
porting the commitment of the United
States Agency for International Devel-
opment to global nutrition through the
Multi-Sectoral Nutrition Strategy.
S. RES. 261
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 261, a resolution recognizing
the contributions of African Americans
to the musical heritage of the United
States and the need for greater access
to music education for African-Amer-
ican students, and expressing support
for the designation of June as African-
American Music Appreciation Month.
AMENDMENT NO. 269
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CORNYN), the Senator from
Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH), and the
Senator from Virginia (Mr. WARNER)
were added as cosponsors of amend-
ment No. 269 intended to be proposed to
S. 1790, an original bill to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 297
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 297 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 298
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 298 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 301
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.016 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4507
June 25, 2019
KING), the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ), the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN), the Senator from Michi-
gan (Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. MURPHY), the Senator
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS), the Sen-
ator from New Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH),
the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY), the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE), the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ), the
Senator from Arizona (Ms. SINEMA),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
SMITH), the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED), and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN) were added as co-
sponsors of amendment No. 301 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 373
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 373 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 484
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 484 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 506
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 506 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 569
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 569 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 590
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 590 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 645
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 645 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 693
At the request of Mr. ROMNEY, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 693 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 725
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 725 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 831
At the request of Mr. WARNER, his
name was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 831 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 832
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. GRAHAM) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 832 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 852
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 852 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 855
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 855 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 859
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY), the Senator
from Indiana (Mr. YOUNG) and the Sen-
ator from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH)
were added as cosponsors of amend-
ment No. 859 intended to be proposed to
S. 1790, an original bill to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
CANTWELL, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. HASSAN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
ROSEN, Mr. SCHATZ, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 1964. A bill to support educational
entities in fully implementing title IX
and reducing and preventing sex dis-
crimination in all areas of education,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I come
to the floor today to discuss the Patsy
T. Mink and Louise M. Slaughter Gen-
der Equity in Education Act, which I
was proud to reintroduce today with
several of my Senate colleagues. I also
want to thank Congresswoman MATSUI,
who introduced the bill in the House.
Our legislation recognizes and builds
on the progress started by two gender
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.018 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4508 June 25, 2019
equity champions: Patsy Mink of Ha-
waii and Louise Slaughter of New
York.
Patsy Mink, the first Asian Amer-
ican woman and woman of color to
serve in Congress, was a pioneer and a
strong champion for gender equity in
education as one of the principal au-
thors of Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972. Congresswoman
Louise Slaughter’s commitment to
public service and fierce advocacy for
women’s equality and empowerment
helped strengthen educational opportu-
nities for all Americans.
The Gender Equity in Education Act
(GEEA) would honor their legacies by
providing more resources for K–12
schools, colleges and universities,
States, school districts, and others to
fully implement Title IX, also known
as the ‘‘Patsy T. Mink Equal Oppor-
tunity in Education Act,’’ which has
transformed the educational landscape
in our country by reaffirming the fun-
damental principal that sex-based dis-
crimination has no place in our na-
tion’s schools.
Since its enactment, Title IX has
opened countless doors for women and
girls, and created important opportuni-
ties for students across the country—
whether in the classroom, on the play-
ing field, or in the boardroom. But bar-
riers still exist, and more work re-
mains to make sure all students have
access to safe learning environments
free from bias and discrimination. We
need to work to make sure schools
treat students equally with regard to
athletic participation opportunities,
athletic scholarships, and the benefits
and services provided to athletic
teams.
We need to work to improve gender
equity in career and technical edu-
cation, in higher education, and in
science, technology, engineering, and
math (STEM) fields while strength-
ening the STEM pipeline. We need to
address sexual harassment and assault
in our nation’s schools.
We need to address discrimination
based on pregnancy or parenting status
by providing better accommodations
and increased support for pregnant and
parenting students, because currently
only half of teenage mothers earn their
high school diplomas before they turn
22 years old, and nearly one-in-three
young mothers never get their diplo-
mas or GEDs, which is unacceptable.
And, at a time when nearly nine-in-
ten LGBTQ students reported being
harassed or assaulted based on a per-
sonal characteristic, we need to ad-
dress discrimination based on stereo-
types of actual or perceived sex—in-
cluding sexual orientation and gender
identity.
GEEA provides important resources
to continue this work—not only to pro-
tect the progress we have made, but
also to build on that progress and cre-
ate more opportunities for students.
By improving and strengthening
Title IX, we uphold the great work of
champions like Patsy Mink and Louise
Slaughter, who fought to make sure no
students are denied equal access to
educational opportunities or have to
worry about whether they are safe on
campus. We must remain vigilant in
this endeavor.
I thank my colleagues for joining me
in reintroducing this important legisla-
tion as we continue our work to ad-
vance Title IX and to ensure equal ac-
cess to educational opportunities for
all.
I yield the floor.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and
Ms. ERNST):
S. 1967. A bill to promote innovative
approaches to outdoor recreation on
Federal land and to increase opportuni-
ties for collaboration with non-Federal
partners, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I
am joined by my colleagues Senator
JONI ERNST, Congressman ROB BISHOP,
and Congresswoman DEBBIE DINGELL to
introduce the bipartisan Recreation
Not Red Tape (RNR) Act. In Oregon
and nationwide, the outdoor recreation
economy is growing. Nationally, out-
door recreation generates $887 billion
in annual consumer spending and 7.6
million American jobs. As those num-
bers keep rising, communities across
the country are benefiting from grow-
ing American interest in enjoying the
great outdoors. Our bill will help grow
the economic potential of the outdoor
recreation economy by opening access,
reducing red tape, and updating Fed-
eral recreation guidelines.
Unfortunately, getting outside often
requires permits, parking passes and
camping fees that are important to
maintaining public lands, but too often
involve confusing, complicated and
lengthy processes to obtain. This bill
removes barriers to outdoor recreation,
making it easier for visitors from near
and far to get outdoors and enjoy
America’s treasures. By streamlining
paths for more people to get outdoors,
the Recreation Not Red Tape Act will
encourage outdoor recreation opportu-
nities, giving communities an eco-
nomic boost.
The RNR Act includes provisions
from Senator HEINRICH’s Simplifying
Outdoor Access for Recreation Act.
The bill improves the Federal outdoor
recreation permitting process by elimi-
nating duplicative and bureaucratic re-
views, requiring time limits for proc-
essing permit applications, reducing
fees, and simplifying multi-jurisdic-
tional trips. The bill also ensures recre-
ation permits are available for online
purchases.
The RNR Act encourages all military
branches to include information about
outdoor recreation opportunities as
part of the basic services provided to
service members and veterans, and en-
courages all military branches to allow
active-duty service members to engage
in outdoor recreation or environmental
stewardship activities without taking
away their hard-earned leave.
For the first time, the RNR Act di-
rects Federal land management agen-
cies to enhance recreation opportuni-
ties when making land and water man-
agement decisions. The RNR Act en-
sures Federal land managers have and
maintain recreation access goals. Im-
portantly, the RNR Act highlights the
recreational values of public lands
across the county and encourages more
National Recreation Area designations
in the future by creating a system of
National Recreation Areas to manage
recreation lands in uniform guidelines.
Additionally, the RNR Act encour-
ages volunteer opportunities to help
agencies carry out public lands mainte-
nance projects, such as trail mainte-
nance on Federal lands. The bill estab-
lishes a pilot program to create uni-
form interagency trail management
standards for trails that cross agency
jurisdictional boundaries.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, and Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN):
S. 1969. A bill to authorize the Fallen
Journalists Memorial Foundation to
establish a commemorative work in
the District of Columbia and its envi-
rons, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise
today to introduce the Fallen Journal-
ists Memorial Act of 2019. I am proud
to be introducing this bill with my
long-time friend and colleague, the
junior Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN).
The purpose of the bill is to authorize
the Fallen Journalists Memorial (FJM)
Foundation to establish a commemora-
tive work—a memorial—in the District
of Columbia or its environs honoring
journalists, photographers, and broad-
casters killed in the line of duty, de-
fending freedom of the press. The bill
directs the Federal government to
make eligible Federal land available
for the memorial.
The bill explicitly prohibits the use
of Federal funds to design or construct
the memorial, and stipulates that the
memorial must be designed and built in
compliance with existing federal stand-
ards for commemorative works. Fur-
thermore, the FJM Foundation must
provide the funding necessary for the
National Park Service or General Serv-
ices Administration to maintain the
memorial. The bill conforms to the
structure of other similar bills.
Across the National Capital Region,
we have monuments and memorials to
honor those who have helped make our
Nation and our democracy stronger
since its founding days. Currently
missing from that honor roll, however,
are journalists who have sacrificed ev-
erything to gather facts, ask questions,
and report the news in the spirit of the
free, open, and transparent societies
and governments that Americans—and
all people—deserve.
Why do we need this memorial? Well,
according to the Committee to Protect
Journalists:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.021 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4509
June 25, 2019
Worldwide, at least 1,337 journalists
have been killed in the line of duty
since 1992;
each year, hundreds of journalists are
attacked, imprisoned, and tortured;
the majority of the journalists killed
are murdered in direct relation to their
work as journalists; and
in 9 out of 10 cases, the killers of
journalists go free.
When we think of casualties, we tend
to think of war correspondents on the
front lines. in battle. Intrepid reporters
and photographers and cameramen and
women put themselves in harm’s way,
and many have been killed and wound-
ed. But then we have cases like the
Saudi Government’s savage dis-
memberment of journalist Jamal
Khashoggi in its Consulate in Turkey
last October. That was a state-sanc-
tioned killing. And here at home, bare-
ly 30 miles from here, we had the hor-
rific shooting at the Capital Gazette in
Annapolis that left five people dead
and two wounded. The attack at the
Gazette offices occurred one year ago
this Friday, on June 28th. So it is fit-
ting that we are introducing the Fallen
Journalists Memorial Act today to re-
member and honor the Gazette victims,
Jamal Khashoggi, and all other jour-
nalists who have been killed in the line
of duty, defending freedom of the press.
The Fallen Journalists Memorial will
be a visible symbol and reminder of
what is at stake and the price people
have paid.
We Americans have certain rights
and responsibilities granted to us
through the Constitution, which estab-
lished the rule of law in this country.
Freedom of the press is one of those
most basic rights and it is central to
our way of life. This precious freedom
has often been under attack, figu-
ratively speaking, since our Nation’s
founding.
Today, attacks on the American
media have become more frequent and
more literal, spurred on by dangerous
rhetoric that is creating an ‘‘open sea-
son’’ on denigrating and harassing the
media for doing its job—asking ques-
tions that need to be asked, inves-
tigating the stories that need to be un-
covered, and bringing needed trans-
parency to the halls of power.
One year ago this Friday, a 38-year-
old man who had a long-standing spu-
rious grudge against the Capital Ga-
zette newspaper, made good on his
sworn threats. He entered the news-
paper offices, headed to the newsroom,
and by the time he was done, he had
shot and killed five employees of this
community newspaper and wounded
two others.
The Capital Gazette is the local
paper of record in Annapolis. It is one
of the oldest continuously published
newspapers in the U.S. It traces its
roots back to the Maryland Gazette,
which began publishing in 1727 and The
Capital, which dates to 1884.
This loss of life is personal to so
many in Annapolis and around our
State. You need to understand that the
Capital Gazette is as much a part of
the fabric of Annapolis as the State
government that it covers better than
anyone in the business.
On that day one year ago, the Anne
Arundel County Police Department,
the Annapolis Police Department, and
the Anne Arundel County Sheriff’s Of-
fice all responded to the first 9–1–1 call
within two minutes, rushing into the
offices and into the newsroom to appre-
hend the gunman and prevent further
bloodshed, according to Anne Arundel
Police Chief Timothy Altomare.
State and Federal law enforcement,
including the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation (FBI), the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (A
TF), and many others agencies quickly
had personnel there to support local of-
ficials in their efforts to clear the
building and meticulously investigate
the scene.
I want to thank, again, all law en-
forcement officers and other first re-
sponders—from the individuals who
rushed into the newsroom not knowing
what danger they might encounter to
those helping get others to safety; from
those gathering evidence to ensure
nothing was lost in the bustle or chaos
of the moment to those diverting traf-
fic so that people could be evacuated
and investigators could do their jobs in
safety.
The swift law enforcement response
undoubtedly saved lives but not before
the gunman managed to kill five peo-
ple. Among them were Gerald
Fischman, 61, who was an editor with
more than 25 years of service with the
Capital Gazette admired at the news-
paper and throughout the community
for his brilliant mind and writing.
Most often, it was his voice and his
insightfulness that came through on
the editorial pages of the Capital Ga-
zette. Rick Hutzell, the Capital Ga-
zette’s editor, described Fischman as
‘‘someone whose life was committed to
protecting our community by telling
hard truths.’’
Rob Hiaasen, 59, was a columnist,
editor, teacher, and storyteller and
brought compassion and humor to his
community-focused reporting. Rob was
a coach and a mentor to many. Accord-
ing to former Baltimore Sun columnist
Susan Reimer, he was ‘‘so happy work-
ing with young journalists . . . He
wanted to create a newsroom where ev-
eryone was growing.’’
John McNamara, 56, was a skilled
writer and avid sports fan and com-
bined these passions in his 24–year ca-
reer as a sports reporter at the Capital
Gazette. Former Capital Gazette sports
editor Gerry Jackson, said of McNa-
mara, or ‘‘Mac,’’ as he went by, ‘‘He
could write. He could edit. He could de-
sign pages. He was just a jack of all
trades and a fantastic person.’’
Rebecca Smith, 34, was a newly-hired
sales assistant known for her kindness,
compassion, and love for her family. A
friend of her fiancé described ‘‘Becca’’
as ‘‘the absolute most beautiful per-
son’’ with ‘‘the biggest heart’’ and
called her death ‘‘a great loss to this
world.’’
Wendi Winters, 65, was a talented
writer who built her career as a public
relations professional and journalist.
She was well-known for her profound
reporting on the lives and achieve-
ments of people within the community.
She was a ‘‘proud Navy Mom’’—and
daughter.
As we learned the details of the
shooting from the survivors, it became
clear that Wendi saved lives during the
attack. She confronted the gunman
and distracted him by throwing things
at him—whatever she could find within
reach. As the paper noted: ‘‘Wendi died
protecting her friends, but also in de-
fense of her newsroom from a mur-
derous assault. Wendi died protecting
freedom of the press.’’
My heartfelt condolences and prayers
continue to go out to the victims and
their families. The surviving staff
members also deserve our prayers and
praise for their resilience and dedica-
tion to their mission as journalists and
respect for their fallen colleagues. Dur-
ing and after the attack, staff contin-
ued to report by tweet, sharing infor-
mation to those outside, taking photos
and documenting information as they
would other crime scenes. Despite their
grief, shock, anger and mourning, the
surviving staff—with help from their
sister publication the Baltimore Sun,
Capital Gazette alumni, and other re-
porters who wanted to lend a hand to
fellow journalists—put out a paper the
following morning and they have done
so every day since. This is grace under
pressure.
Fittingly, the editorial page the day
after the shooting was purposefully left
blank, but for the few words: ‘‘Today,
we are speechless. This page is inten-
tionally left blank to commemorate
the victims of Thursday’s shootings at
our office.’’ The staff promised that on
Saturday, the page would ‘‘return to
its steady purpose of offering our read-
ers informed opinion about the world
around them, that they might be bet-
ter citizens.’’
I want to repeat one quote from the
Capital Gazette editorial page that
bears repeating: ‘‘Wendi died pro-
tecting her friends, but also in defense
of her newsroom from a murderous as-
sault. Wendi died protecting freedom of
the press.’’ Wendi Winters and her col-
leagues died protecting freedom of the
press.
Here in the United States, the Cap-
ital Gazette shooting was not an iso-
lated incident; other journalists have
been vulnerable to attack or reprisal
for their work:
a freelance photojournalist was
killed in the September 11, 2001, at-
tacks on the World Trade Center;
in October 2001, a photo editor with
the Sun newspaper in Boca Raton,
Florida, died from inhaling anthrax, a
substance that was mailed to a number
of journalists across the United States;
in August 2007, a masked gunman
shot and killed the editor-in-chief of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.023 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4510 June 25, 2019
the Oakland Post, a prominent Afri-
can-American newspaper; and
in August 2015, a reporter and cam-
eraman for television station WDBJ7
were shot dead during a live broadcast
in Smith Mountain Lake, Virginia.
At least 59 journalists have been
murdered or killed in the United States
while reporting, while covering a mili-
tary conflict, or simply because of
their status as a journalist.
While Annapolis and most of the Na-
tion rallied in support of the survivors
of the Capital Gazette shooting, the
paper reported receiving new death
threats and emails celebrating the at-
tack. This is not right in America or
anywhere else.
Journalists, like all Americans,
should be free from the fear of being
violently attacked while doing their
job—both figuratively and literally.
The right of journalists to report the
news is nothing less than the right of
all of us to know, to understand what
is happening around us and to us.
Media freedom and media pluralism are
essential for the expression of, or en-
suring respect for, other fundamental
freedoms and safeguarding democracy,
the rule of law, and a system of checks
and balances.
Every one of us in this body—Demo-
crats and Republicans—has sworn an
oath to support and defend the Con-
stitution of the United States of Amer-
ica. We bear the solemn responsibility
of defending freedom of the press. It is
time for us to redouble our efforts both
here at home and abroad. We must lead
by example. The very foundation and
legitimacy of our democratic republic
are at stake. One way to start is by me-
morializing those brave men and
women who have died or been killed, as
the New York Times’ Adolph S. Ochs
put it in 1896, ‘‘to give the news impar-
tially, without fear or favor, regardless
of party, sect, or interests involved.’’
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 263—HON-
ORING THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE AMERICAN LEGION
Mr. BRAUN (for himself, Mr. TESTER,
Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. JONES) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judici-
ary:
S. RES. 263
Whereas The American Legion was founded
on March 15, 1919;
Whereas Congress chartered The American
Legion on September 16, 1919;
Whereas, in 2019, The American Legion
celebrates 100 years of serving veterans of
the Armed Forces, their families, and com-
munities;
Whereas The American Legion is the larg-
est wartime veterans service organization in
the United States;
Whereas The American Legion is
headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, and
has approximately 2,000,000 members of the
Armed Forces and veterans in its member-
ship;
Whereas The American Legion has counted
among its members 10 Presidents of the
United States;
Whereas The American Legion has played
a vital role in advocating for veterans’ af-
fairs, including the passage of the Service-
men’s Readjustment Act of 1944 (commonly
known as the ‘‘G.I. Bill’’) (58 Stat. 284, chap-
ter 268) and the creation of the Department
of Veterans Affairs;
Whereas The American Legion has shown
steadfast dedication to improving local com-
munities, contributing approximately
3,700,000 volunteer community service hours
annually and millions of dollars in college
scholarships to students across the United
States; and
Whereas the mantra of The American Le-
gion’s 100th anniversary, ‘‘Legacy and Vi-
sion’’, is an apt description of the contribu-
tions of The American Legion to life in the
United States throughout 100 years of serv-
ice and mutual helpfulness: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes that The American Legion
has been a cornerstone of life in the United
States from the local to the Federal level for
100 years and serves as a constant reminder
of the inestimable contributions the mem-
bers of the Armed Forces have made to en-
rich life in the United States during and
after their service;
(2) honors the vital role The American Le-
gion has played in the United States
throughout 100 years of service;
(3) remembers the deep and lasting mark
Legionnaires have made throughout 100
years of history of the United States; and
(4) celebrates the continued position of The
American Legion as an inextinguishable bea-
con of community, responsibility, honor, and
service.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 264—RECOG-
NIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF
AFRICAN AMERICANS TO THE
MUSICAL HERITAGE OF THE
UNITED STATES AND THE NEED
FOR GREATER ACCESS TO MUSIC
EDUCATION FOR AFRICAN-AMER-
ICAN STUDENTS, AND EXPRESS-
ING SUPPORT FOR THE DES-
IGNATION OF JUNE AS AFRICAN-
AMERICAN MUSIC APPRECIATION
MONTH
Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. JONES,
Mr. CARPER, Mr. COONS, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. BROWN, and Ms. HARRIS)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions:
S. RES. 264
Whereas spirituals, ragtime, blues, jazz,
gospel, classical composition, and countless
other categories of music have been created
or enhanced by African Americans, and are
etched into the history and culture of the
United States;
Whereas the first Africans transported to
the United States came from a variety of
ethnic groups with a long history of distinct
and cultivated musical traditions, brought
musical instruments with them, and built
new musical instruments in the United
States;
Whereas spirituals were a distinct response
to the conditions of African slavery in the
United States, and expressed the longing of
enslaved people for spiritual and bodily free-
dom, for safety from harm and evil, and for
relief from the hardships of slavery;
Whereas jazz, arguably the most creative
and complex music that the United States
has produced, combines the musical tradi-
tions of African Americans in New Orleans
with the creative flexibility of blues music;
Whereas country music is based on a com-
bination of musical influences, including the
rhythmic influences and musical instru-
ments of African immigrants, and was per-
formed by musicians such as DeFord Bailey,
who was the first African American to star
in the Grand Ole Opry;
Whereas masterful trumpeters Louis Arm-
strong and Miles Davis achieved national
and international recognition with the suc-
cess of ‘‘West End Blues’’ by Louis Arm-
strong in the 1920s and ‘‘So What’’ by Miles
Davis in the late 1950s;
Whereas talented jazz pianist and vocalist
Nathaniel Adams Coles recorded more than
150 singles and sold more than 50 million
records;
Whereas the talent of Ella Fitzgerald, win-
ner of 13 Grammys, is epitomized by a ren-
dition of ‘‘Summertime’’, a bluesy record ac-
companied by melodic vocals;
Whereas Natalie Cole, the daughter of Na-
thaniel Adams Coles, achieved musical suc-
cess in the mid-1970s as a rhythm and blues
artist with the hits ‘‘This Will Be’’ and ‘‘Un-
forgettable’’;
Whereas in the 1940s, bebop evolved
through jam sessions, which included trum-
peter Dizzy Gillespie and the alto saxo-
phonist Charlie Parker, that were held at
clubs in Harlem, New York, such as Minton’s
Playhouse;
Whereas earlier classical singers such as
Elizabeth Taylor Greenfield, one of the first
widely known African-American vocalists,
and other early African-American singing
pioneers, including Nellie Mitchell Brown,
Marie Selika Williams, Rachel Walker Tur-
ner, Marian Anderson, and Flora Batson Ber-
gen, paved the way for female African-Amer-
ican concert singers who have achieved great
popularity during the last 50 years;
Whereas the term ‘‘rhythm and blues’’
originated in the late 1940s as a way to de-
scribe recordings marketed to African Amer-
icans and replaced the term ‘‘race music’’;
Whereas lyrical themes in rhythm and
blues often encapsulate the African-Amer-
ican experience of pain, the quest for free-
dom, joy, triumphs and failures, relation-
ships, economics, and aspiration, and were
popularized by artists such as Ruth Brown,
Etta James, and Otis Redding;
Whereas soul music originated in the Afri-
can-American community in the late 1950s
and early 1960s and combines elements of Af-
rican-American gospel music, rhythm and
blues, and jazz, and was popularized by art-
ists such as Aretha Franklin, James Brown,
Ray Charles, Sam Cooke, and Jackie Wilson;
Whereas Motown, founded as a record label
in 1959, evolved into a distinctive style
known for the ‘‘Motown Sound’’, a blend of
pop and soul musical stylings made popular
by prominent Black artists such as Marvin
Gaye, James Mason, and Mary Wells;
Whereas in the early 1970s, the musical
style of disco emerged and was popularized
by programs such as Soul Train and by art-
ists such as Donna Summer;
Whereas reggae is a genre of music that
originated in Jamaica in the late 1960s and
incorporates some of the musical elements of
rhythm and blues, jazz, mento, calypso, and
African music, and was popularized by art-
ists such as Bob Marley;
Whereas rock and roll was developed from
African-American musical styles such as
gospel and rhythm and blues, and was popu-
larized by artists such as Chuck Berry, Bo
Diddley, and Jimi Hendrix;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.024 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4511
June 25, 2019
Whereas rap, arguably the most complex
and influential form of hip-hop culture, com-
bines elements of the African-American mu-
sical tradition (blues, jazz, and soul) with
Caribbean calypso, dub, and dance hall
reggae;
Whereas the development and popularity of
old style rap combined confident beats with
wordplay and storytelling, highlighting the
struggle of African-American youth growing
up in underresourced neighborhoods;
Whereas contemporary rhythm and blues,
which originated in the late 1970s and com-
bines elements of pop, rhythm and blues,
soul, funk, hip hop, gospel, and electronic
dance music was popularized by artists such
as Whitney Houston and Aaliyah;
Whereas Prince Rogers Nelson, who was
known for electric performances and wide
vocal range, pioneered music that integrated
a wide variety of styles, including funk,
rock, contemporary rhythm and blues, new
wave, soul, psychedelia, and pop;
Whereas a recent study by the Department
of Education found that only 28 percent of
African-American students receive any kind
of arts education;
Whereas African-American students scored
the lowest of all ethnicities in the most re-
cent National Assessment for Educational
Progress arts assessment;
Whereas students who are eligible for the
school lunch program established under the
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) have significantly
lower scores on the music portion of the Na-
tional Assessment for Educational Progress
arts assessment than students that are ineli-
gible for that program, which suggests that
students in low-income families are dis-
advantaged in the subject of music;
Whereas a recent study showed that nearly
2⁄3 of music ensemble students were White
and middle class and only 15 percent were Af-
rican-American;
Whereas the same study found that only 7
percent of music teacher licensure can-
didates were African-American; and
Whereas students of color face many bar-
riers to accessing music education and train-
ing, especially students in large urban public
schools: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate recognizes—
(1) the contributions of African Americans
to the musical heritage of the United States;
(2) the wide array of talented and popular
African-American musical artists, com-
posers, songwriters, and musicians who are
underrecognized for contributions to music;
(3) the achievements, talent, and hard
work of African-American pioneer artists,
and the obstacles that those artists over-
came to gain recognition;
(4) the need for African-American students
to have greater access to and participation
in music education in schools across the
United States; and
(5) Black History Month and African-
American Music Appreciation Month as an
important time—
(A) to celebrate the impact of the African-
American musical heritage on the musical
heritage of the United States; and
(B) to encourage greater access to music
education so that the next generation may
continue to greatly contribute to the musi-
cal heritage of the United States.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 875. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 876. Mr. TOOMEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 877. Mr. SULLIVAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 878. Mr. LEE (for himself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. COL-
LINS, and Ms. WARREN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 879. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 880. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 881. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
JONES, and Mrs. CAPITO) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 882. Ms. ERNST submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 883. Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. PAUL,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
MURPHY, and Mr. LEE) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 884. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 885. Mr. MORAN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 886. Mr. WARNER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 887. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr.
ROMNEY, and Mr. LEE) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 888. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 889. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 890. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 891. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 892. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 893. Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 764 pro-
posed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 894. Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, and Ms. CANTWELL) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 895. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 896. Mr. MORAN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 897. Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 764 pro-
posed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 898. Mr. PERDUE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 899. Mr. MORAN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 875. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 108lll. SUPPORT AND ENHANCEMENT OF
DEFENSE CRITICAL ELECTRIC IN-
FRASTRUCTURE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the avail-
ability of funds provided in any appropria-
tions Act enacted on or after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy
may use those funds to plan and install new
generation, transmission, and distribution
assets and resiliency upgrades to existing
distribution and transmission assets for the
exclusive purpose of enhancing the power
supply at military bases identified by the
Secretary as containing defense critical elec-
tric infrastructure (as that term is defined in
section 215A(a) of the Federal Power Act (16
U.S.C. 824o–1(a))) to improve the resilience of
the infrastructure against physical or cyber
threats.
(b) GENERATION ASSETS EXCLUDED.—The
Secretary of Energy shall not take any ac-
tion in carrying out subsection (a) that pro-
vides financial support to existing genera-
tion assets.
SA 876. Mr. TOOMEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.034 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4512 June 25, 2019
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle F of title VIII of the
amendment, add the following:
SEC. 866. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON MUNITIONS
SUPPLY CHAIN DIVERSITY.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) a viable and diverse United States man-
ufacturing base in munitions development
and production is vitally important;
(2) the United States Armed Forces rely on
the ability of United States manufacturers
to produce bunker buster bombs; and
(3) as the Air Force develops and procures
the next generation of munitions, the Sec-
retary of the Air Force should ensure ade-
quate capacity and a diverse supply chain for
the current and future development of and
manufacturing capability for these impor-
tant munitions.
SA 877. Mr. SULLIVAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1019. REPORT ON EXPANDING NAVAL VES-
SEL MAINTENANCE.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than May
1, 2020, the Secretary of the Navy shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense committees
a report on the feasibility and advisability of
allowing maintenance to be performed on a
naval vessel at a shipyard other than a
homeport shipyard of the vessel.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of the ability of home-
port shipyards to meet the current naval
vessel maintenance demands.
(2) An assessment of the ability of home-
port shipyards to meet the naval vessel
maintenance demands of the force structure
assessment requirement of the Navy for a
355-ship navy.
(3) An assessment of the ability of non-
homeport firms to augment repair work at
homeport shipyards, including an assessment
of the following:
(A) The capability and proficiency of ship-
yards in the Great Lakes, Gulf Coast, East
Coast, West Coast, and Alaska regions to
perform technical repair work on naval ves-
sels at locations other than their homeports.
(B) The improvements to the capability
and capacity of shipyards in the Great
Lakes, Gulf Coast, East Coast, West Coast,
and Alaska regions that would be required to
enable performance of technical repair work
on naval vessels at locations other than
their homeports.
(C) The types of naval vessels (such as non-
combatant vessels or vessels that only need
limited periods of time in shipyards) best
suited for repair work performed by ship-
yards in locations other than their
homeports.
(D) The potential benefits to fleet readi-
ness of expanding shipyard repair work to in-
clude shipyards not located at the homeports
of naval vessels.
(E) The ability of non-homeport firms to
maintain surge capacity when homeport
shipyards lack the capacity or capability to
meet homeport requirements.
(4) An assessment of the potential benefits
of expanding repair work for naval vessels to
shipyards not eligible for short-term work in
accordance with section 8669a(c) of title 10,
United States Code.
(5) Such other related matters as the Sec-
retary of the Navy considers appropriate.
(c) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(1) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO CONSTRUC-
TION OF COMBATANT AND ESCORT VESSELS AND
ASSIGNMENT OF VESSEL PROJECTS.—Nothing
in this section may be construed to override
the requirements of section 8669a of title 10,
United States Code.
(2) NO FUNDING FOR SHIPYARDS OF NON-
HOMEPORT FIRMS.—Nothing in this section
may be construed to authorize funding for
shipyards of non-homeport firms.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HOMEPORT SHIPYARD.—The term ‘‘home-
port shipyard’’ means a shipyard associated
with a firm capable of being awarded short-
term work at the homeport of a naval vessel
in accordance with section 8669a(c) of title
10, United States Code.
(2) SHORT-TERM WORK.—The term ‘‘short-
term work’’ has the meaning given that term
in section 8669a(c)(4) of such title.
SA 878. Mr. LEE (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Ms. COLLINS, and Ms. WARREN) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 764 pro-
posed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S. 1790,
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. PROHIBITION ON THE INDEFINITE DE-
TENTION OF CITIZENS AND LAWFUL
PERMANENT RESIDENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Due Process Guarantee Act’’.
(b) LIMITATION ON DETENTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 4001(a) of title 18,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘No citizen’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) No citizen or lawful permanent resi-
dent of the United States’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) Any Act of Congress that authorizes
an imprisonment or detention described in
paragraph (1) shall be consistent with the
Constitution and expressly authorize such
imprisonment or detention.’’.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—Nothing in section
4001(a)(2) of title 18, United States Code, as
added by paragraph (1)(B), may be construed
to limit, narrow, abolish, or revoke any de-
tention authority conferred by statute, dec-
laration of war, authorization to use mili-
tary force, or similar authority effective
prior to the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(c) RELATIONSHIP TO AN AUTHORIZATION TO
USE MILITARY FORCE, DECLARATION OF WAR,
OR SIMILAR AUTHORITY.—Section 4001 of title
18, United States Code, as amended by sub-
section (b) is further amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b)(1) No United States citizen or lawful
permanent resident who is apprehended in
the United States may be imprisoned or oth-
erwise detained without charge or trial un-
less such imprisonment or detention is ex-
pressly authorized by an Act of Congress.
‘‘(2) A general authorization to use mili-
tary force, a declaration of war, or any simi-
lar authority, on its own, may not be con-
strued to authorize the imprisonment or de-
tention without charge or trial of a citizen
or lawful permanent resident of the United
States apprehended in the United States.
‘‘(3) Paragraph (2) shall apply to an author-
ization to use military force, a declaration of
war, or any similar authority enacted before,
on, or after the date of the enactment of the
Due Process Guarantee Act.
‘‘(4) This section may not be construed to
authorize the imprisonment or detention of a
citizen of the United States, a lawful perma-
nent resident of the United States, or any
other person who is apprehended in the
United States.’’.
SA 879. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 3124.
SA 880. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title XVI, insert
the following:
SEC. lll. ENSURING SECURITY OF COMMER-
CIAL CLOUD SERVICES DEPLOYED
IN CLASSIFIED ENVIRONMENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Cloud Security Act of 2019’’.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to ensure that architectures, specifica-
tions, and deployments of commercial cloud
services deployed in classified environments
of the United States are not the same as
those deployed in foreign countries of con-
cern and shared with foreign military and
governments adverse to the United States.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Select Committee on Intelligence, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, and the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence, the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(2) CLASSIFIED ENVIRONMENT.—The term
‘‘classified environment’’ means a system
which handles classified information, which,
for reasons of national security, is specifi-
cally designated by a United States Govern-
ment agency as ‘‘Top Secret’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.027 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4513
June 25, 2019
(3) CLOUD COMPUTING SERVICE.—The term
‘‘cloud computing service’’ means an infra-
structure-as-a-service (IaaS) or a platform-
as-a-service (PaaS) as defined in Special
Publication 800–145 of the National Institutes
of Standards and Technology, as in effect on
the day before the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(4) COMMERCIAL CLOUD SERVICE.—The term
‘‘commercial cloud service’’ means a cloud
computing service that is sold on the com-
mercial market to customers other than the
United States Government.
(5) COMMERCIAL CLOUD SERVICE PROVIDER.—
The term ‘‘commercial cloud service pro-
vider’’ means a commercial business or enti-
ty that provides a commercial cloud service.
(6) FOREIGN COUNTRY OF CONCERN.—The
term ‘‘foreign country of concern’’ means a
country that challenges or seeks to under-
mine the United States or the interests of
the United States, as identified in the Na-
tional Defense Strategy of the United States
of America.
(7) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 3 of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(8) MATERIALLY DIFFERENT.—The term
‘‘materially different’’, with respect to two
cloud computing services, means if having
immediate, physical access to and control
over the architectures, specifications, and
technology as well as the personnel used to
operate one service could not yield useful in-
formation for attacking, compromising, or
otherwise obtaining illicit access to the
other service.
(d) POLICIES REQUIRED.—Not later than
June 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense, the
Director of National Intelligence, the Sec-
retary of State, the Secretary of Energy, and
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
jointly establish a policy to ensure that a
commercial cloud service procured from a
commercial cloud service provider and de-
ployed in a classified environment is materi-
ally different from commercial cloud service
deployed in a foreign country of concern.
(e) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—Not later than
June 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense, the
Director of National Intelligence, the Sec-
retary of State, the Secretary of Energy, and
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
jointly promulgate such regulations as may
be necessary—
(1) to implement the policy established
under subsection (d) across the departments
and agencies over which they have jurisdic-
tion; and
(2) enforce penalties should a commercial
cloud service provider fail to self-certify
under subsection (d) or fail to comply with a
provision of the policies established under
subsection (d) or the regulations promul-
gated under this subsection.
(f) COVERED TECHNOLOGIES.—The policies
established under subsection (d) and the reg-
ulations promulgated under subsection (e)
shall set forth the technologies and proce-
dures covered by such policies and regula-
tions, including, at a minimum, the fol-
lowing:
(1) Nonpublic computer source code.
(2) Specifications for data centers and
cloud computing service architectures.
(3) Artificial intelligence systems.
(4) Cryptographic solutions.
(g) SELF-CERTIFICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The policies established
under subsection (d) and the regulations pro-
mulgated under subsection (e) shall prohibit
the secretaries and the director described in
such subsections from deploying in any clas-
sified environment any commercial cloud
service from a commercial cloud service pro-
vider, and any relevant subcontractor of the
commercial cloud service provider, that has
not self-certified compliance with the re-
quirements of such policies and regulations.
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each self-certification
under paragraph (1) regarding a commercial
cloud service shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
(A) An attestation of the following:
(i) The commercial cloud service and its
infrastructure or platform is materially dif-
ferent from any commercial cloud service
and its infrastructure or platform that has
been or is planned to be provided to a foreign
nation of concern.
(ii) The operational processes for the data
center used for the commercial cloud service
is materially different than the operational
processes for any data center—
(I) deployed in a foreign country of con-
cern; or
(II) used for any commercial cloud service
provided to a foreign country of concern.
(iii) Any provisioning of technical assist-
ance to the foreign nation of concern relat-
ing to a commercial cloud service will not
lead to the Commercial cloud service pro-
vider or subcontractor sharing information
that would be harmful to the United States
or otherwise failing to comply with the re-
quirements of the policies established under
subsection (d) and the regulations promul-
gated under subsection (e).
(iv) In any case in which the commercial
cloud service provider or subcontractor dis-
covers that information about a technology
covered by the policies established under
subsection (d) or promulgated under sub-
section (e) is released to a foreign country of
concern, the commercial cloud service pro-
vider or subcontractor will promptly notify
the Director of National Intelligence of such
release, including information that is re-
leased pursuant to a mandate from a foreign
entity or as a condition of operation in a for-
eign country.
(B) A list any foreign commercial partners
that have access to information about the
technologies and procedures covered pursu-
ant to subsection (f).
(h) PENALTIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The policies established
under subsection (d) and the regulations pro-
mulgated under subsection (e) shall include
penalties for failure to comply with require-
ments set forth in such policies and regula-
tions.
(2) DEBARMENT.—The penalties established
under paragraph (1) shall include a debar-
ment from contracting with the Federal
Government or supporting a contract with
the Federal Government, including the pro-
visioning of tools, technology, and services,
for a period of not less than 5 years.
(i) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
Secretary of Defense, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence, the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of Energy, and the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall jointly submit to
the appropriate committees of Congress a re-
port on the activities of the secretaries and
the Director to carry out this section.
(2) CONTENTS.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A description of the policy established
under subsection (d).
(B) An list of the contracts affected by the
policies established under subsection (d) and
the regulations promulgated under sub-
section (e).
(C) An assessment of each contract listed
pursuant to subparagraph (B) as to whether
the parties to the contract and the goods and
services provided pursuant to the contract
are in compliance with such policies and reg-
ulations.
(D) A plan to ensure that parties, goods,
and services described in subparagraph (C)
that are not in compliance with such policies
and regulations become compliant with such
policies and regulations.
SA 881. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself,
Mr. JONES, and Mrs. CAPITO) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. BLOCKING FENTANYL IMPORTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Blocking Deadly Fentanyl Im-
ports Act’’.
(b) AMENDMENT TO DEFINITION OF MAJOR IL-
LICIT DRUG PRODUCING COUNTRY.—Section
481(e)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
(22 U.S.C. 2291(e)(2)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘in which’’;
(2) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘in
which’’ before ‘‘1,000’’;
(3) in subparagraph (B)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘in which’’ before ‘‘1,000’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end;
(4) in subparagraph (C)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘in which’’ before ‘‘5,000’’;
and
(B) by inserting ‘‘or’’ after the semicolon;
and
(5) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) that is a significant source of illicit
synthetic opioids and related illicit precur-
sors significantly affecting the United
States;’’.
(c) INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL
STRATEGY REPORT.—Section 489(a) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2291h(a)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(9) A separate section that contains the
following:
‘‘(A) An identification of the countries, to
the extent feasible, that are the most signifi-
cant sources of illicit fentanyl and fentanyl
analogues significantly affecting the United
States during the preceding calendar year.
‘‘(B) A description of the extent to which
each country identified pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) has cooperated with the United
States to prevent the articles or chemicals
described in subparagraph (A) from being ex-
ported from such country to the United
States.
‘‘(C) A description of whether each country
identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) has
adopted and utilizes scheduling or other pro-
cedures for illicit drugs that are similar in
effect to the procedures authorized under
title II of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 811 et seq.) for adding drugs and other
substances to the controlled substances
schedules;
‘‘(D) A description of whether each country
identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) is
following steps to prosecute individuals in-
volved in the illicit manufacture or distribu-
tion of controlled substance analogues (as
defined in section 102(32) of the Controlled
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(32)); and
‘‘(E) A description of whether each country
identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) re-
quires the registration of tableting machines
and encapsulating machines or other meas-
ures similar in effect to the registration re-
quirements set forth in part 1310 of title 21,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.027 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4514 June 25, 2019
Code of Federal Regulations, and has not
made good faith efforts, in the opinion of the
Secretary, to improve regulation of
tableting machines and encapsulating ma-
chines.’’.
(d) WITHHOLDING OF BILATERAL AND MULTI-
LATERAL ASSISTANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 490(a) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291j(a))
is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or coun-
try identified pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) of
section 489(a)(8)(A) of this Act’’ and inserting
‘‘country identified pursuant to section
489(a)(8)(A), or country twice identified pur-
suant to section 489(a)(9)(A)’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or major
drug-transit country (as determined under
subsection (h)) or country identified pursu-
ant to clause (i) or (ii) of section 489(a)(8)(A)
of this Act’’ and inserting ‘‘, major drug-
transit country, country identified pursuant
to section 489(a)(8)(A), or country twice iden-
tified pursuant to section 489(a)(9)(A)’’.
(2) DESIGNATION OF ILLICIT FENTANYL COUN-
TRIES WITHOUT SCHEDULING PROCEDURES.—
Section 706(2) of the Foreign Relations Au-
thorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (22 U.S.C.
2291j–1(2)) is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘also’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(C) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as
subparagraph (E);
(D) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
‘‘(B) designate each country, if any, identi-
fied under section 489(a)(9) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(9))
that has failed to adopt and utilize sched-
uling procedures for illicit drugs that are
comparable to the procedures authorized
under title II of the Controlled Substances
Act (21 U.S.C. 811 et seq.) for adding drugs
and other substances to the controlled sub-
stances schedules;’’; and
(E) in subparagraph (E), as redesignated,
by striking ‘‘so designated’’ and inserting
‘‘designated under subparagraph (A), (B), (C),
or (D)’’.
(3) DESIGNATION OF ILLICIT FENTANYL COUN-
TRIES WITHOUT ABILITY TO PROSECUTE CRIMI-
NALS FOR THE MANUFACTURE OR DISTRIBUTION
OF FENTANYL ANALOGUES.—Section 706(2) of
the Foreign Relations Authorization Act,
Fiscal Year 2003 (22 U.S.C. 2291j–1(2)), as
amended by paragraph (2), is further amend-
ed by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following:
‘‘(C) designate each country, if any, identi-
fied under section 489(a)(9) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(9))
that has not taken significant steps to pros-
ecute individuals involved in the illicit man-
ufacture or distribution of controlled sub-
stance analogues (as defined in section
102(32) of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 802(32));’’.
(4) DESIGNATION OF ILLICIT FENTANYL COUN-
TRIES THAT DO NOT REQUIRE THE REGISTRATION
OF PILL PRESSES AND TABLETING MACHINES.—
Section 706(2) of the Foreign Relations Au-
thorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (22 U.S.C.
2291j–1(2)), as amended by paragraphs (2) and
(3), is further amended by inserting after
subparagraph (C) the following:
‘‘(D) designate each country, if any, identi-
fied under section 489(a)(9) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(9))
that—
‘‘(i) does not require the registration of
tableting machines and encapsulating ma-
chines in a manner comparable to the reg-
istration requirements set forth in part 1310
of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations; and
‘‘(ii) has not made good faith efforts (in the
opinion of the Secretary) to improve the reg-
ulation of tableting machines and encap-
sulating machines; and’’.
(5) LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE FOR DES-
IGNATED COUNTRIES.—Section 706(3) of the
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal
Year 2003 (22 U.S.C. 2291j–1(3)) is amended by
striking ‘‘also designated under paragraph
(2) in the report’’ and inserting ‘‘designated
in the report under paragraph (2)(A) or twice
designated in the report under subparagraph
(B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (2)’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
date that is 90 days after the date of the en-
actment of this Act.
SA 882. Ms. ERNST submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title X of division A, add the
following:
Subtitle I—Presidential Allowance
Modernization
SEC. 1091. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Presi-
dential Allowance Modernization Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 1092. AMENDMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Act entitled ‘‘An Act
to provide retirement, clerical assistants,
and free mailing privileges to former Presi-
dents of the United States, and for other pur-
poses’’, approved August 25, 1958 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Former Presidents Act of
1958’’) (3 U.S.C. 102 note), is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘That (a) each’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SECTION 1. FORMER PRESIDENTS LEAVING OF-
FICE BEFORE PRESIDENTIAL AL-
LOWANCE MODERNIZATION ACT OF
2019.
‘‘(a) Each’’;
(2) by redesignating subsection (g) as sec-
tion 3 and adjusting the margin accordingly;
and
(3) by inserting after section 1, as so des-
ignated, the following:
‘‘SEC. 2. FORMER PRESIDENTS LEAVING OFFICE
AFTER PRESIDENTIAL ALLOWANCE
MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2019.
‘‘(a) ANNUITIES AND ALLOWANCES.—
‘‘(1) ANNUITY.—Each modern former Presi-
dent shall be entitled for the remainder of
his or her life to receive from the United
States an annuity at the rate of $200,000 per
year, subject to subsections (b)(2) and (c), to
be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury.
‘‘(2) ALLOWANCE.—The Administrator of
General Services is authorized to provide
each modern former President a monetary
allowance at the rate of $200,000 per year,
subject to the availability of appropriations
and subsections (b)(2), (c), and (d).
‘‘(b) DURATION; FREQUENCY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The annuity and allow-
ance under subsection (a) shall each—
‘‘(A) commence on the day after the date
on which an individual becomes a modern
former President;
‘‘(B) terminate on the date on which the
modern former President dies; and
‘‘(C) be payable on a monthly basis.
‘‘(2) APPOINTIVE OR ELECTIVE POSITIONS.—
The annuity and allowance under subsection
(a) shall not be payable for any period during
which a modern former President holds an
appointive or elective position in or under
the Federal Government to which is at-
tached a rate of pay other than a nominal
rate.
‘‘(c) COST-OF-LIVING INCREASES.—Effective
December 1 of each year, each annuity and
allowance under subsection (a) that com-
menced before that date shall be increased
by the same percentage by which benefit
amounts under title II of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) are increased, ef-
fective as of that date, as a result of a deter-
mination under section 215(i) of that Act (42
U.S.C. 415(i)).
‘‘(d) LIMITATION ON MONETARY ALLOW-
ANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, the monetary
allowance payable under subsection (a)(2) to
a modern former President for any 12-month
period—
‘‘(A) except as provided in subparagraph
(B), may not exceed the amount by which—
‘‘(i) the monetary allowance that (but for
this subsection) would otherwise be so pay-
able for such 12-month period, exceeds (if at
all)
‘‘(ii) the applicable reduction amount for
such 12-month period; and
‘‘(B) shall not be less than the amount de-
termined under paragraph (3).
‘‘(2) DEFINITION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of para-
graph (1), the term ‘applicable reduction
amount’ means, with respect to any modern
former President and in connection with any
12-month period, the amount by which—
‘‘(i) the sum of—
‘‘(I) the adjusted gross income (as defined
in section 62 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986) of the modern former President for the
most recent taxable year for which a tax re-
turn is available; and
‘‘(II) any interest excluded from the gross
income of the modern former President
under section 103 of such Code for such tax-
able year, exceeds (if at all)
‘‘(ii) $400,000, subject to subparagraph (C).
‘‘(B) JOINT RETURNS.—In the case of a joint
return, subclauses (I) and (II) of subpara-
graph (A)(i) shall be applied by taking into
account both the amounts properly allocable
to the modern former President and the
amounts properly allocable to the spouse of
the modern former President.
‘‘(C) COST-OF-LIVING INCREASES.—The dollar
amount specified in subparagraph (A)(ii)
shall be adjusted at the same time that, and
by the same percentage by which, the mone-
tary allowance of the modern former Presi-
dent is increased under subsection (c) (dis-
regarding this subsection).
‘‘(3) INCREASED COSTS DUE TO SECURITY
NEEDS.—With respect to the monetary allow-
ance that would be payable to a modern
former President under subsection (a)(2) for
any 12-month period but for the limitation
under paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection, the
Administrator of General Services, in coordi-
nation with the Director of the United
States Secret Service, shall determine the
amount of the allowance that is needed to
pay the increased cost of doing business that
is attributable to the security needs of the
modern former President.
‘‘(e) WIDOWS AND WIDOWERS.—The widow or
widower of each modern former President
shall be entitled to receive from the United
States a monetary allowance at a rate of
$100,000 per year (subject to paragraph (4)),
payable monthly by the Secretary of the
Treasury, if such widow or widower shall
waive the right to each other annuity or pen-
sion to which she or he is entitled under any
other Act of Congress. The monetary allow-
ance of such widow or widower—
‘‘(1) commences on the day after the mod-
ern former President dies;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.035 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4515
June 25, 2019
‘‘(2) terminates on the last day of the
month before such widow or widower dies;
‘‘(3) is not payable for any period during
which such widow or widower holds an ap-
pointive or elective office or position in or
under the Federal Government to which is
attached a rate of pay other than a nominal
rate; and
‘‘(4) shall, after its commencement date, be
increased at the same time that, and by the
same percentage by which, annuities of mod-
ern former Presidents are increased under
subsection (c).
‘‘(f) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘modern former President’ means a person—
‘‘(1) who shall have held the office of Presi-
dent of the United States of America;
‘‘(2) whose service in such office shall have
terminated—
‘‘(A) other than by removal pursuant to
section 4 of article II of the Constitution of
the United States of America; and
‘‘(B) after the date of enactment of the
Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of
2019; and
‘‘(3) who does not then currently hold such
office.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—The Former Presidents Act of 1958 is
amended—
(1) in section 1(f)(2), as designated by this
section—
(A) by striking ‘‘terminated other than’’
and inserting the following: ‘‘terminated—
‘‘(A) other than’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) on or before the date of enactment of
the Presidential Allowance Modernization
Act of 2019; and’’; and
(2) in section 3, as redesignated by this sec-
tion—
(A) by inserting after the section enu-
merator the following: ‘‘AUTHORIZATION OF
APPROPRIATIONS.’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘or modern former Presi-
dent’’ after ‘‘former President’’ each place
that term appears.
SEC. 1093. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this subtitle or an amendment
made by this subtitle shall be construed to
affect—
(1) any provision of law relating to the se-
curity or protection of a former President or
modern former President, or a member of the
family of a former President or modern
former President; or
(2) funding, under the Former Presidents
Act of 1958 or any other law, to carry out any
provision of law described in paragraph (1).
SEC. 1094. APPLICABILITY.
Section 2 of the Former Presidents Act of
1958, as added by section 1092(a)(3) of this
subtitle, shall not apply to—
(1) any individual who is a former Presi-
dent on the date of enactment of this Act; or
(2) the widow or widower of an individual
described in paragraph (1).
SA 883. Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
PAUL, Mr. KAINE, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MURPHY, and Mr. LEE)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 764 pro-
posed by Mr. INHOFE to the bill S. 1790,
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title XII of the
amendment, add the following:
SEC. 1226. PROHIBITION OF UNAUTHORIZED
MILITARY OPERATIONS AGAINST
IRAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—No funds authorized by
this Act may be used to conduct hostilities
against the Government of Iran, against the
Armed Forces of Iran, or in the territory of
Iran.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed—
(1) to restrict the use of the United States
Armed Forces to defend against an attack
upon the United States, its territories or
possessions, or its Armed Forces;
(2) to limit the obligations under the War
Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.); or
(3) to affect the provisions of an Act or a
joint resolution of Congress specifically au-
thorizing such hostilities that is enacted
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SA 884. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title II, add the
following new section:
SEC. 2ll. MICROELECTRONICS CYBERSECURITY
CENTER.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall establish a microelectronics cybersecu-
rity center (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Center’’).
(b) RESPONSIBILITIES.—The Center shall be
responsible for providing the defense indus-
trial base with access to manufacturing re-
sources to support anti-tamper manufac-
turing, system integration, advanced pack-
aging, and technical training capabilities for
the development, prototyping, and low-vol-
ume production of secured integrated micro-
electronics in support of Department of De-
fense system commands and laboratories to
improve the security of Federal Government
systems and critical infrastructure.
(c) PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall seek to enter into an agreement with a
qualified public-private partnership under
which the partnership will carry out the re-
sponsibilities of the Center under this sec-
tion.
(2) QUALIFIED PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP
DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘qualified public-private partnership’’ means
a partnership between the Department of De-
fense and one or more private sector entities
that is in effect as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
SA 885. Mr. MORAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title VII, add
the following:
SEC. 705. ASSESSMENT OF HEALTH OF CERTAIN
BIOLOGICAL DEPENDENTS IN CON-
NECTION WITH PERIODIC HEALTH
ASSESSMENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE
ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS.
(a) ASSESSMENT OF HEALTH OF CERTAIN DE-
PENDENTS REQUIRED.—The Secretary con-
cerned shall ensure that any periodic health
assessment of a member of the Armed Forces
or a veteran provided by or for purposes of
the Department of Defense or the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, as applicable, in-
cludes an evaluation of the health of any bio-
logical descendants of the member or vet-
eran, as the case may be.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the evalua-
tions of the health of descendants under sub-
section (a) shall be to facilitate the tracking
and identification of health conditions in
such descendants that may be causally re-
lated to the exposure of the member or vet-
eran concerned to toxins during service in
the Armed Forces.
(c) ELEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The evaluations of the
health of descendants under subsection (a)
shall include questions of the member or vet-
eran concerned on the following:
(A) Whether such member or veteran has
experienced infertility or an adverse birth
outcome, and, if so and if known, the cause
of or diagnosis for such infertility or birth
outcome.
(B) The health of each biological descend-
ant of such member or veteran, including
any current medical diagnosis, and any cur-
rent mental health diagnosis, with respect to
any such descendant.
(2) PRESERVATION AND COMPILATION.—The
information derived from answers to ques-
tions of a member or veteran in evaluations
of the health of descendants of the member
or veteran under subsection (a) shall be pre-
served and compiled in a manner designed to
facilitate the use of such information for the
purpose specified in subsection (b) in connec-
tion with the member or veteran.
(d) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
jointly enter into a memorandum of under-
standing that provides for the following:
(A) The sharing of information between the
Department of Defense and the Department
of Veterans Affairs on trends identified
through evaluations of the health of descend-
ants under subsection (a).
(B) The analysis of data collected through
periodic health assessments of members and
veterans, and through evaluations of the
health of descendants under subsection (a),
in order to identify potential causal rela-
tionships between the exposure of members
and veterans to toxins during service in the
Armed Forces and the generational effects of
such exposure on the biological descendants
of members and veterans.
(2) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary
of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs shall jointly submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on activi-
ties undertaken under the memorandum of
understanding entered into under paragraph
(1) during the one-year period ending on the
date of such report.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘appropriate committees of
Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.035 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4516 June 25, 2019
(2) The term ‘‘Secretary concerned’’ means
the following:
(A) The Secretary of Defense with respect
to members of the Armed Forces.
(B) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs with
respect to veterans.
(3) The term ‘‘biological descendant’’, in
the case of a member or veteran, means a bi-
ological child or grandchild of the member
or veteran.
(4) The term ‘‘periodic health assessment’’
includes a physical examination.
SA 886. Mr. WARNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1045. INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY
SYSTEM—ARMY.
(a) INCREASED AMOUNT FOR OTHER PRO-
CUREMENT, ARMY.—The amount authorized
to be appropriated by section 101 for fiscal
year 2020 is hereby increased by $18,674,000,
with the amount of the increase to be avail-
able for Other Procurement, Army, for Elec-
trical Equipment—C2 Systems as specified in
the funding table in section 4101 for Inte-
grated Personnel and Pay System—Army.
(b) INCREASED AMOUNT FOR RESEARCH, DE-
VELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, ARMY.—
The amount authorized to be appropriated
by section 201 for fiscal year 2020 is hereby
increased by 142,773,000, with the amount of
the increase to be available for Research, De-
velopment, Test, and Evaluation, Army, for
Systems Development and Demonstration as
specified in the funding table in section 4201
for Integrated Personnel and Pay System—
Army.
SA 887. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself,
Mr. ROMNEY, and Mr. LEE) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. MODIFICATION OF PERIOD AFTER
RETIREMENT FOR AUTHORITY OF
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO AP-
POINT RETIRED MEMBERS OF THE
ARMED FORCES TO POSITIONS
WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT AFTER
RETIREMENT.
Section 3326 of title 5, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b)(1) A retired member of the armed
forces may be appointed to a position in the
civil service in or under the Department of
Defense (including a nonappropriated fund
instrumentality under the jurisdiction of the
armed forces) immediately after the retire-
ment of the member only if the proposed ap-
pointment is authorized by the Secretary
concerned or a designee of the Secretary
concerned, after a determination that—
‘‘(A) the position has not been held open
pending the retirement of the retired mem-
ber;
‘‘(B) qualification requirements for the po-
sition have not been written in a manner de-
signed to give advantage to the retired mem-
ber; and
‘‘(C) the retired member was considered
and selected in accordance with the applica-
ble law (including regulations) governing the
appointing authority used to appoint the re-
tired member.
‘‘(2) The Secretary concerned or a designee
of the Secretary concerned shall determine
the duration under which the provisions of
this subsection apply.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d)(1) Not later than February 15 each
year, the Secretary of Defense and the Direc-
tor of the Office of Personnel Management
shall jointly submit to Congress a report on
the appointments made during the preceding
year using the authority in subsection (b)(1).
‘‘(2) Each report under this subsection
shall set forth, for the year covered by such
report, the following:
‘‘(A) The number of appointments made
using the authority in subsection (b)(1).
‘‘(B) The grades at retirement from the
armed forces of the individuals subject to
such appointments.
‘‘(C) The job titles, pay grades, and loca-
tions of employment at appointment of the
individuals subject to such appointments.’’.
SA 888. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 1663 of the amendment, strike
lines 1 through 26, and insert the following:
(e) RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE OF IRAN SANC-
TIONS WAIVERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Director assesses, in
the report required by subsection (b), that
the Government of Iran is supporting proxy
forces in Syria and Lebanon, the President
may not—
(A) issue any waiver of the application of
sanctions under—
(i) the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note);
(ii) the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Ac-
countability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22
U.S.C. 8501 et seq.);
(iii) section 1245 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (22
U.S.C. 8513a);
(iv) the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria
Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8701 et
seq.); or
(v) the Iran Freedom and Counter-Pro-
liferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8801 et seq.);
or
(B) remove any Iranian person from the
SDN list.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) IRANIAN PERSON.—The term ‘‘Iranian
person’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 1242 of the Iran Freedom and
Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C.
8801).
(B) SDN LIST.—The term ‘‘SDN list’’ means
the list of specially designated nationals and
blocked persons maintained by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of
the Treasury.
SEC. 10708. ANNUAL REPORT ON IRANIAN EX-
PENDITURES SUPPORTING FOREIGN
MILITARY AND TERRORIST ACTIVI-
TIES.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act and not less frequently than once
each year thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to Congress
a report describing Iranian expenditures in
the previous calendar year on military and
terrorist activities outside the country, in-
cluding each of the following:
(1) The amount spent in such calendar year
on activities by the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps, including activities providing
support for—
(A) Hizballah;
(B) Houthi rebels in Yemen;
(C) Hamas;
(D) proxy forces in Iraq and Syria; or
(E) any other entity or country the Direc-
tor determines to be relevant.
(2) The amount spent in such calendar year
for ballistic missile research and testing or
other activities that the Director determines
are destabilizing to the Middle East region.
(b) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
(c) RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE OF IRAN SANC-
TIONS WAIVERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Director assesses, in
the report required by subsection (a), that
the Government of Iran has expended funds
for activities described in paragraph (1) or (2)
of that subsection, the President may not—
(A) issue any waiver of the application of
sanctions under—
(i) the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note);
(ii) the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Ac-
countability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22
U.S.C. 8501 et seq.);
(iii) section 1245 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (22
U.S.C. 8513a);
(iv) the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria
Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8701 et
seq.); or
(v) the Iran Freedom and Counter-Pro-
liferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8801 et seq.);
or
(B) remove any Iranian person from the
SDN list.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) IRANIAN PERSON.—The term ‘‘Iranian
person’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 1242 of the Iran Freedom and
Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C.
8801).
(B) SDN LIST.—The term ‘‘SDN list’’ means
the list of specially designated nationals and
blocked persons maintained by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of
the Treasury.
SA 889. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 1663 of the amendment, strike
lines 1 through 26, and insert the following:
(e) RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE OF IRAN SANC-
TIONS WAIVERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Director assesses, in
the report required by subsection (b), that
the Government of Iran is supporting proxy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.036 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4517
June 25, 2019
forces in Syria and Lebanon, the President
may not—
(A) issue any waiver of the application of
sanctions under—
(i) the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note);
(ii) the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Ac-
countability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22
U.S.C. 8501 et seq.);
(iii) section 1245 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (22
U.S.C. 8513a);
(iv) the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria
Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8701 et
seq.); or
(v) the Iran Freedom and Counter-Pro-
liferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8801 et seq.);
or
(B) remove any Iranian person from the
SDN list.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) IRANIAN PERSON.—The term ‘‘Iranian
person’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 1242 of the Iran Freedom and
Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C.
8801).
(B) SDN LIST.—The term ‘‘SDN list’’ means
the list of specially designated nationals and
blocked persons maintained by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of
the Treasury.
SEC. 10708. ANNUAL REPORT ON IRANIAN EX-
PENDITURES SUPPORTING FOREIGN
MILITARY AND TERRORIST ACTIVI-
TIES.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act and not less frequently than once
each year thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to Congress
a report describing Iranian expenditures in
the previous calendar year on military and
terrorist activities outside the country, in-
cluding each of the following:
(1) The amount spent in such calendar year
on activities by the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps, including activities providing
support for—
(A) Hizballah;
(B) Houthi rebels in Yemen;
(C) Hamas;
(D) proxy forces in Iraq and Syria; or
(E) any other entity or country the Direc-
tor determines to be relevant.
(2) The amount spent in such calendar year
for ballistic missile research and testing or
other activities that the Director determines
are destabilizing to the Middle East region.
(b) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
(c) RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE OF IRAN SANC-
TIONS WAIVERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may not
issue a waiver described in paragraph (2) or
remove any Iranian person from the SDN
list—
(A) unless there is enacted into law a joint
resolution approving the issuance of the
waiver or the removal of the person from
that list, as the case may be; or
(B) if the Director assesses, in the report
required by subsection (a), that the Govern-
ment of Iran has expended funds for activi-
ties described in paragraph (1) or (2) of that
subsection.
(2) WAIVERS DESCRIBED.—A waiver de-
scribed in this paragraph is any waiver of the
application of sanctions under—
(A) the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note);
(B) the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Ac-
countability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22
U.S.C. 8501 et seq.);
(C) section 1245 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (22
U.S.C. 8513a);
(D) the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria
Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8701 et
seq.); or
(E) the Iran Freedom and Counter-Pro-
liferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8801 et seq.).
(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) IRANIAN PERSON.—The term ‘‘Iranian
person’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 1242 of the Iran Freedom and
Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C.
8801).
(B) SDN LIST.—The term ‘‘SDN list’’ means
the list of specially designated nationals and
blocked persons maintained by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of
the Treasury.
SA 890. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN TERMI-
NATION AND WAIVER PROVISIONS
RELATING TO IRAN SANCTIONS.
(a) REPEAL OF SUNSET PROVISION OF IRAN
SANCTIONS ACT OF 1996.—Section 13(b) of the
Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–
172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is repealed.
(b) MODIFICATION OF APPLICABILITY OF CER-
TAIN SANCTIONS TO PETROLEUM TRANS-
ACTIONS.—Section 1245(d)(4) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2012 (22 U.S.C. 8513a(d)(4)) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(4) APPLICABILITY OF SANCTIONS WITH RE-
SPECT TO PETROLEUM TRANSACTIONS.—Sanc-
tions imposed under paragraph (1)(A) shall
apply with respect to a financial transaction
conducted or facilitated by a foreign finan-
cial institution on or after the date that is
180 days after the date of the enactment of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 for the purchase of petro-
leum or petroleum products from Iran.’’.
(c) LIMITATION ON CERTAIN WAIVERS OF
SANCTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Until the date on which
the conditions specified in paragraph (2) are
met, the President may not—
(A) issue any waiver of the application of
sanctions under—
(i) the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note);
(ii) the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Ac-
countability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22
U.S.C. 8501 et seq.);
(iii) section 1245 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (22
U.S.C. 8513a);
(iv) the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria
Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8701 et
seq.); or
(v) the Iran Freedom and Counter-Pro-
liferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8801 et seq.);
or
(B) remove any Iranian person from the
SDN list.
(2) CONDITIONS.—The conditions specified
in this paragraph are met if—
(A) the President certifies to Congress
that—
(i) the Government of Iran has—
(I) ceased supporting acts of international
terrorism; and
(II) has released all hostages who are
United States citizens or aliens lawfully ad-
mitted to the United States for permanent
residence; and
(ii) the International Atomic Energy Agen-
cy has verified that Iran’s nuclear program
is exclusively peaceful in nature; and
(B) there is enacted into law a joint resolu-
tion approving the issuance of the waiver de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1)
or the removal of the Iranian person from
the SDN list, as the case may be.
(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) IRANIAN PERSON.—The term ‘‘Iranian
person’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 1242 of the Iran Freedom and
Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C.
8801).
(B) SDN LIST.—The term ‘‘SDN list’’ means
the list of specially designated nationals and
blocked persons maintained by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of
the Treasury.
SA 891. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 1224(c)(2), add at the end the fol-
lowing:
(H) An evaluation of the contributions
made by partner countries within the Global
Coalition to Defeat ISIS to the repatriation
and prosecution of ISIS detainees.
SA 892. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 3051 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 3051. LEAD CONTAMINATION TESTING AND
REPORTING.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE POLICY ON LEAD TESTING ON MILITARY
INSTALLATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than February 1,
2020, the Secretary of Defense shall establish
a policy under which—
(A) a qualified individual may access a
military installation for the purpose of con-
ducting lead testing on the installation, sub-
ject to the approval of the Secretary; and
(B) the results of any lead testing con-
ducted on a military installation shall be
transmitted—
(i) in the case of a military installation lo-
cated inside the United States, to—
(I) the civil engineer of the installation;
(II) the housing management office of the
installation;
(III) the major subordinate command of
the Armed Force with jurisdiction over the
installation; and
(IV) if required by law, any relevant Fed-
eral, State, and local agencies; and
(ii) in the case of a military installation
located outside the United States, to the
civil engineer or commander of the installa-
tion who shall transmit those results to the
major subordinate command of the Armed
Force with jurisdiction over the installation.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.037 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4518 June 25, 2019
(A) QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL.—The term
‘‘qualified individual’’ means—
(i) an individual who is certified by the En-
vironmental Protection Agency or by a
State as—
(I) a lead-based paint inspector; or
(II) a lead-based paint risk assessor; or
(ii) an employee of a laboratory certified
by the Environmental Protection Agency or
by a State to test for lead contamination in
drinking water who is authorized to conduct
such tests.
(B) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘‘United
States’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 101(a)(1) of title 10, United States
Code.
(b) ANNUAL REPORTING ON LEAD-BASED
PAINT IN MILITARY HOUSING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter III of chapter
169 of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following new
section:
‘‘§ 2869a. Annual reporting on lead-based
paint in military housing
‘‘(a) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than February
1 of each year, the Secretary of Defense shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees a report that sets forth, with respect to
military housing under the jurisdiction of
each Secretary of a military department for
the calendar year preceding the year in
which the report is submitted, the following:
‘‘(A) A certification that indicates whether
the military housing under the jurisdiction
of the Secretary concerned is in compliance
with the requirements respecting lead-based
paint, lead-based paint activities, and lead-
based paint hazards described in section 408
of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15
U.S.C. 2688).
‘‘(B) A detailed summary of the data,
disaggregated by military department, used
in making the certification under subpara-
graph (A).
‘‘(C) The total number of military housing
units under the jurisdiction of the Secretary
concerned that were inspected for lead-based
paint in accordance with the requirements
described in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(D) The total number of military housing
units under the jurisdiction of the Secretary
concerned that were not inspected for lead-
based paint.
‘‘(E) The total number of military housing
units that were found to contain lead-based
paint in the course of the inspections de-
scribed in subparagraph (C).
‘‘(F) A description of any abatement ef-
forts with respect to lead-based paint con-
ducted regarding the military housing units
described in subparagraph (E).
‘‘(2) PUBLICATION.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall publish each report submitted
under paragraph (1) on a publicly available
website of the Department of Defense.
‘‘(b) MILITARY HOUSING DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘military housing’ includes
military family housing and military unac-
companied housing (as such term is defined
in section 2871 of this title).’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such subchapter
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘2869a. Annual reporting on lead-based paint
in military housing.’’.
SA 893. Mr. BOOKER (for himself and
Mr. ISAKSON) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1086. TRANSFER AUTHORITY FOR EBOLA RE-
SPONSE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
may transfer amounts of authorizations
made available to the Department of Defense
for overseas humanitarian disaster and civic
aid to any other authorization to support ef-
forts of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development and the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention to address
the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Re-
public of Congo and surrounding countries.
(b) NOTIFICATION OF CONGRESS.—Not later
than 15 days before the date on which a
transfer under subsection (a) is carried out,
the Secretary shall notify the appropriate
committees of Congress of such transfer.
(c) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of House of Rep-
resentatives.
SA 894. Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself,
Ms. MURKOWSKI, and Ms. CANTWELL)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in subtitle H of
title X, insert the following:
SEC. 10ll. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN LABELING FOR
KING CRAB AND TANNER CRAB.
Section 281(7)(B) of the Agricultural Mar-
keting Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1638(7)(B)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘includes a fillet’’ and in-
serting ‘‘includes—
‘‘(i) a fillet’’;
(2) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) whole cooked king crab and tanner
crab and cooked king crab and tanner crab
sections.’’.
SA 895. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. ll. COVERED INFRINGEMENT ACTIONS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘affected proceeding’’ means
an action for patent infringement under title
35, United States Code, an investigation
under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19
U.S.C. 1337), or any other administrative or
judicial proceeding in which—
(A) a patent issued by the United States
Patent and Trademark Office is a subject of
the proceeding; and
(B) a designated entity—
(i) is the owner or exclusive licensee of the
patent described in subparagraph (A);
(ii) has a financial interest in the outcome
of the proceeding; or
(iii) has direct or indirect control over the
conduct of the litigation of the matter by
the holder of the patent described in sub-
paragraph (A);
(2) the term ‘‘covered regulations’’ means
the Export Administration Regulations
under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15,
Code of Federal Regulations; and
(3) the term ‘‘designated entity’’ means—
(A) an entity on the entity list maintained
by the Bureau of Industry and Security of
the Department of Commerce and set forth
in Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of title 15,
Code of Federal Regulations; or
(B) any parent, subsidiary, or affiliate of
an entity described in subparagraph (A).
(b) CONDUCT OF AFFECTED PROCEEDINGS.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of law
or regulation, the following requirements
shall apply with respect to an affected pro-
ceeding:
(1) The pleadings alleging patent infringe-
ment shall, with respect to any patent in
which a designated entity has an interest—
(A) state with particularity the facts and
circumstances constituting that infringe-
ment, including—
(i) all patent claims alleged to be in-
fringed; and
(ii) all products and services alleged to be
infringed;
(B) provide a detailed identification of the
specific elements of each patent claim that
is found in each product and service identi-
fied under subparagraph (A)(ii); and
(C) state with particularity all damages or
other remedies sought in the proceeding.
(2) Excluding legal counsel for the des-
ignated entity, neither the designated entity
nor the agents or representatives of the des-
ignated entity may obtain through dis-
covery, or by other means, any non-public
information of any entity or person related
to any technical features or operation of a
product or service.
(3) Upon the filing of the affected pro-
ceeding, the designated entity shall provide
notice of the proceeding to the Department
of Justice and the United States Patent and
Trademark Office.
(4) The United States shall have the uncon-
ditional right to intervene as a party in the
proceeding under rule 24(a) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure.
(c) RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN PATENT
TRANSACTIONS.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of law or regulation, the following
requirements shall apply with respect to the
sale or exclusive license of a patent issued by
the United States Patent and Trademark Of-
fice:
(1) The sale or license is prohibited if the
sale or license is to a designated entity and
the entity has not undergone review under
section 721 of the Defense Production Act of
1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565).
(2) The sale or license is prohibited if the
sale or license is to or by a designated entity
and the manufacture, sale, use, import, or
export of a product or service that is subject
to the covered regulations would infringe the
patent, unless an appropriate license is
granted under the covered regulations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.037 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4519
June 25, 2019
(3) With respect to a patent not involving
a drug or biological product, the sale or li-
cense of the patent to or by a designated en-
tity to any foreign entity or affiliate shall
require notification pursuant to rules under
subsection (d)(1) and the waiting period de-
scribed in subsection (b)(1) of section 7A of
the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 18a), notwith-
standing any other provision of that Act.
(d) LIST.—The Under Secretary of Com-
merce for Intellectual Property and Director
of the United States Patent and Trademark
Office shall maintain a publicly available
list of all designated entities.
SA 896. Mr. MORAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 360. STUDY ON FEASIBILITY OF INCLUDING
ANALYTICAL MODEL OF WIND TUR-
BINES INTO EXISTING CLEARING-
HOUSE PROCESS.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
in coordination with the Secretary of Trans-
portation and the heads of such other Fed-
eral agencies as the Secretary of Defense
considers appropriate, shall conduct a study
on the feasibility of including an analytical
model of wind turbines into the existing
clearinghouse process of the Department of
Defense.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The study required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An analysis of the following:
(i) The height and blade dimension of wind
turbine structures, the energy generated by
such structures, and other factors relating to
such structures as the Secretary of Defense
determines appropriate.
(ii) Topographical and environmental con-
siderations associated with the location of
wind turbine projects.
(iii) The impact of individual wind turbine
structures and the combined impact of pro-
posed and existing wind turbine structures
within a 50-mile radius of commercial or
military airfields or military training
routes.
(iv) The proximity of wind turbine struc-
tures to general aviation, commercial or
military training routes, installations of the
Department of Defense, and special use air-
space.
(v) The impact of wind turbine structure
operation, individually or collectively, on—
(I) approach and departure corridors;
(II) established military training routes;
(III)
(IV) radar for air traffic control;
(V) instrumented landing systems; and
(VI) other factors, as determined by the
Administrator of the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration and the Secretary of Defense.
(B) An assessment of whether including an
analytical model of wind turbines into the
existing clearinghouse process of the Depart-
ment of Defense is practical, necessary, or
cost-beneficial as compared to the current
process of the Department.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than July 31, 2020,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a report on
the results of the study conducted under sub-
section (a).
SA 897. Mr. MORAN (for himself and
Mr. BROWN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 764 proposed by Mr. INHOFE to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title VII, add
the following:
SEC. 705. ASSESSMENT OF HEALTH OF CERTAIN
BIOLOGICAL DEPENDENTS IN CON-
NECTION WITH PERIODIC HEALTH
ASSESSMENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE
ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS.
(a) ASSESSMENT OF HEALTH OF CERTAIN DE-
PENDENTS REQUIRED.—The Secretary con-
cerned shall ensure that any periodic health
assessment or physical of a member of the
Armed Forces or a veteran provided by or for
purposes of the Department of Defense or the
Department of Veterans Affairs, as applica-
ble, includes a recording of the health condi-
tions of any biological descendants of the
member or veteran, as the case may be.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the recording
of the health conditions of descendants
under subsection (a) shall be to facilitate the
tracking and identification of health condi-
tions in such descendants that may be caus-
ally related to the exposure of the member
or veteran concerned to toxins during service
in the Armed Forces.
(c) ELEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The recording of the
health conditions of descendants under sub-
section (a) shall include questions of the
member or veteran concerned on the fol-
lowing:
(A) Whether such member or veteran has
experienced infertility or an adverse birth
outcome, and, if so and if known, the cause
of or diagnosis for such infertility or birth
outcome.
(B) The health conditions of each biologi-
cal descendant of such member or veteran,
including any current medical diagnosis, and
any current mental health diagnosis, with
respect to any such descendant.
(2) PRESERVATION AND COMPILATION.—The
information derived from answers to ques-
tions of a member or veteran during their
periodic health assessments or physicals on
the health conditions of descendants of the
member or veteran under subsection (a) shall
be preserved and compiled in a manner de-
signed to facilitate the use of such informa-
tion for the purpose specified in subsection
(b) in connection with the member or vet-
eran.
(d) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
jointly enter into a memorandum of under-
standing that provides for the following:
(A) The sharing of information between the
Department of Defense and the Department
of Veterans Affairs on trends identified
through evaluations of the health of descend-
ants under subsection (a).
(B) The analysis of data collected through
periodic health assessments and physicals of
members and veterans on the health condi-
tions of descendants under subsection (a), in
order to identify potential causal relation-
ships between the exposure of members and
veterans to toxins during service in the
Armed Forces and the generational effects of
such exposure on the biological descendants
of members and veterans.
(2) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary
of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs shall jointly submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on activi-
ties undertaken under the memorandum of
understanding entered into under paragraph
(1) during the one-year period ending on the
date of such report.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘appropriate committees of
Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives.
(2) The term ‘‘Secretary concerned’’ means
the following:
(A) The Secretary of Defense with respect
to members of the Armed Forces.
(B) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs with
respect to veterans.
(3) The term ‘‘biological descendant’’, in
the case of a member or veteran, means a bi-
ological child or grandchild of the member
or veteran.
(4) The term ‘‘periodic health assessment’’
includes a physical examination.
SA 898. Mr. PERDUE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title V, add the
following:
SEC. 508. FUNCTIONAL BADGE OR INSIGNIA
UPON COMMISSION FOR CHAPLAINS.
A military chaplain shall receive a func-
tional badge or insignia upon commission.
SA 899. Mr. MORAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 764 proposed by Mr.
INHOFE to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 360. STUDY ON FEASIBILITY OF INCLUDING
ANALYTICAL MODEL OF WIND TUR-
BINES INTO EXISTING CLEARING-
HOUSE PROCESS.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
in coordination with the Secretary of Trans-
portation and the heads of such other Fed-
eral agencies as the Secretary of Defense
considers appropriate, shall conduct a study
on the feasibility of including an analytical
model of wind turbines into the existing
clearinghouse process of the Department of
Defense.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The study required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An analysis of the following:
(i) The height and blade dimension of wind
turbine structures, the energy generated by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.038 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4520 June 25, 2019
such structures, and other factors relating to
such structures as the Secretary of Defense
determines appropriate.
(ii) Topographical and environmental con-
siderations associated with the location of
wind turbine projects.
(iii) The impact of individual wind turbine
structures and the combined impact of pro-
posed and existing wind turbine structures
within a 50-mile radius of commercial or
military airfields or military training
routes.
(iv) The proximity of wind turbine struc-
tures to general aviation, commercial or
military training routes, installations of the
Department of Defense, and special use air-
space.
(v) The impact of wind turbine structure
operation, individually or collectively, on—
(I) approach and departure corridors;
(II) established military training routes;
(III) radar for air traffic control;
(IV) instrumented landing systems; and
(V) other factors, as determined by the Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration and the Secretary of Defense.
(B) An assessment of whether including an
analytical model of wind turbines into the
existing clearinghouse process of the Depart-
ment of Defense is practical, necessary, or
cost-beneficial as compared to the current
process of the Department.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than July 31,
2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the appropriate committees of Congress a
report on the results of the study conducted
under subsection (a).
(2) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term ‘‘ap-
propriate committees of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I have 7
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, June 25, 2019, at 9:45 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, June 25, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, June 25, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Tuesday, June 25,
2019, at 2: 15 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
June 25, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a
closed roundtable.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON COMMUNICATION,
TECHNOLOGY, INNOVATION, AND THE INTERNET
The Subcommittee on Communica-
tion, Technology, Innovation, and The
Internet of the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, June 25, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND
SAFETY
The Subcommittee on Transpor-
tation and Safety of the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation is authorized to meet during the
session of the Senate on Tuesday, June
25, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY, JUNE
26, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Wednesday, June
26; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate resume con-
sideration of S. 1790; finally, that not-
withstanding the provisions of rule
XXII, the cloture motions filed during
Monday’s session ripen at 12 noon to-
morrow.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order fol-
lowing the remarks of Senators FISCH-
ER, RISCH, and BROWN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise
today to speak on the fiscal year 2020
Defense authorization bill. I want to
begin by thanking the chairman and
the ranking member of the Senate
Armed Services Committee for their
leadership and for their hard work in
crafting this bill and managing it on
the floor.
The bill before us today is the worthy
successor to last year’s John S. McCain
National Defense Authorization Act.
Like its immediate predecessor, this
bill’s overarching objective is to reori-
ent the Department of Defense toward
the great power competition that our
Nation faces today.
Overall, the bill supports a total of
$750 billion in defense spending, which
includes $642 billion for the Depart-
ment of Defense’s base budget, $23 bil-
lion for the Department of Energy’s de-
fense activities, and another $76 billion
for overseas contingency operations.
This meets the level of spending re-
quested by the President and provides
the Department of Defense with real
growth above the rate of the inflation
in recognition of increasing threats our
Nation faces.
The bill also supports the All-Volun-
teer Force, providing a 3.1-percent pay
raise for our men and women in uni-
form. It meets the President’s request
with respect to end strength for an Ac-
tive-Duty force of 1,339,500 soldiers,
sailors, airmen and marines.
I serve as chairman of the Sub-
committee on Strategic Forces, which
has jurisdiction over nuclear forces,
missile defense, and national security
space programs, and the U.S. Strategic
Command, to which Nebraska is home.
I am fond of quoting the statement of
former President Obama’s Secretary of
Defense, Ash Carter, that ‘‘Nuclear de-
terrence is the bedrock of our security
and the highest priority mission of the
Department of Defense.’’
That was true in 2016 when he said it,
and it is even truer today as Russia and
China continue to expand their nuclear
arsenals and deterring great power con-
flict becomes the central focus of our
military.
With this changing security environ-
ment in mind, this bill fully funds the
nuclear mission of the men and women
of USSTRATCOM, including the
sustainment of our nuclear forces, as
well as the modernization of our triad,
our nuclear command and control sys-
tems, and the Department of Energy’s
nuclear complex.
This legislation builds upon last
year’s support for the supplemental
systems announced in the President’s
Nuclear Posture Review by authorizing
funds for the deployment of low-yield
ballistic missile warhead. Numerous
senior military leaders have testified
that this is what is necessary to ad-
dress gaps in our current deterrence
posture.
The fiscal year 2020 Senate NDAA
also supports the Navy’s ongoing study
of restoring a sea-launched cruise mis-
sile capability in order to further en-
hance deterrence and also to reassure
allies.
Moreover, the legislation includes a
requirement for the administration to
submit a report assessing four major
categories of nuclear arms that are
currently not captured by the New
START Treaty. As many of my col-
leagues are aware, the administration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN6.038 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4521
June 25, 2019
has announced its intent to pursue a
more comprehensive approach to arms
control beyond the traditional bilat-
eral limitations of land-based ICBMs,
submarine-launched ballistic missiles,
and our heavy bombers.
The administration’s logic is simple:
Threats are shifting. As Russia invests
in new and novel nuclear systems that
are not captured by the New START
Treaty and China’s arsenal expands, a
new approach is needed that accounts
for these new dynamics. In support of
this effort, this provision would require
that the administration provide a com-
prehensive assessment of these factors.
Additionally, the Strategic Forces
Subcommittee authorized resources for
a number of key unfunded priorities for
our warfighters. This includes an addi-
tional $113 million for the development
of the next generation of GPS receivers
to ensure the U.S. military continues
to have access to resilient position,
navigation, and timing capabilities,
and an additional $108 million for the
Missile Defense Agency to continue the
development of space-based sensors to
track advanced threats, including
hypersonic weapons. Finally, it fully
authorized critical bilateral US-Israel
cooperative missile defense programs.
The critical resources this bill pro-
vides will be appreciated by our stra-
tegic partners and our men and women
in uniform around the globe, as well as
those in each and every State here at
home.
I am honored to represent the men
and women of Offutt Air Force Base,
the 55th Wing, and the Nebraska Na-
tional Guard, and I am proud to say
that this legislation authorizes several
critical investments that not only sup-
port our uniformed men and women in
Nebraska; it better enables them to
fulfill their roles in defending this Na-
tion.
By passing the fiscal year 2020 NDAA,
we keep the ‘‘fighting 55th’’ Wing fly-
ing. The bill authorizes full funding for
the Air Force budget request to sup-
port the C–135 family of aircraft. It
supports significant upgrades to the ca-
pabilities of the RC–135 Rivet Joint,
the continued conversion of KC–135
tankers to WC–135R nuclear detection
aircraft, and enables the ongoing OC–
135 Open Skies recapitalization.
Just as critically, the bill helps the
Air Force to evolve its ISR capability
and move toward a more survivable,
networked environment, with manned,
unmanned, and sensors all acting as
key components to give battlefield
commanders the best information pos-
sible. To achieve this, the bill includes
two amendments I authored that will
direct the Air Force to examine the in-
tegration and dissemination of data
from surveillance platforms like the
RC–135 to the warfighter.
While the bill authorizes these im-
portant new investments, it also pro-
vides funding to address ongoing dis-
aster recovery efforts, which are essen-
tial to restoring military installations
that were affected by the recent flood-
ing in Nebraska. Rebuilding Offutt Air
Force Base and the Nebraska National
Guard’s Camp Ashland are top prior-
ities, and I am happy to report that the
bill authorizes millions of dollars in
funding to aid in the continued process
of cleanup, design, and construction for
the facilities that were destroyed.
Because I believe Nebraska’s bases
are a core component of the Nation’s
defense, I was also proud to offer two
amendments that further support the
process of rebuilding. These measures
increase the cap on minor military
construction for recovery at bases im-
pacted by recent disasters and encour-
age the military services to work
quickly to rebuild Offutt Air Force
Base and Camp Ashland.
I strongly urge all of my colleagues
to work together to support this dis-
aster recovery effort. Many key mili-
tary installations have been affected
across several States, and the work to
rebuild these bases must be a collabo-
rative effort. We owe it to our men and
women in uniform to do this together.
For 58 years, the NDAA has been the
subject of a bipartisan consensus in
Congress. Despite other disagreements
that may arise and the significant de-
bates we face, this bill has long been a
unifying subject of agreement on Cap-
itol Hill. There is good reason for that,
and a record that spans a half century
does not happen by accident. The fact
is that no matter what other issues
arise, an area where we must forge
agreement is in supporting our service-
members and enabling the defense of
the Nation.
This year, we had a productive mark-
up, with substantive debate on the
issues in this bill. The process worked
the way it was intended, and we
emerged with a strong bipartisan con-
sensus on the bill before us. I encour-
age all of my colleagues to support this
legislation so that we can continue our
tradition of authorizing full funding for
the military and ensure that this legis-
lation is signed into law on time.
In that same spirit, it is essential
that we take the next step and work to
secure a budget agreement that not
only supports a robust top line for na-
tional defense, but that we do so swift-
ly to give the Department of Defense
the predictable funding they need to
plan and budget for the coming year.
Passing NDAA is only half of the job.
Yes, we must authorize full funding for
our military, but if we are truly com-
mitted to our military men and
women, we must also vote on the de-
fense appropriations bill to fund what
we do here this week on NDAA. As we
continue to debate the fiscal year 2020
NDAA, we should all remember the
reason we have this debate every year.
One of the primary responsibilities of
Congress is to provide for the common
defense. That responsibility is written
in the Constitution, and it is an oath
each of us swore to uphold. I am re-
minded of that oath frequently when I
am back home in Nebraska. Each time
I shake hands with a Nebraskan in uni-
form or meet a family member with a
loved one overseas, I think about the
responsibility we have and the debt we
owe the ones who serve.
Over the years, countless sons and
daughters of the heartland have an-
swered that call to service. They are
regular men and women from every
background and every walk of life,
united by their desire to safeguard
their homeland and protect the cause
of freedom. Yes, they are regular men
and women, but they are also excep-
tional Americans, and their spirit and
their sacrifice are examples that we
should remember every day.
I hope we can come together in the
spirit of service and work together to
swiftly pass the fiscal year 2020 Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, I rise
today to discuss the proposed Udall
amendment to the National Defense
Authorization Act. It is not pending,
but it has been filed, and thus I do
want to talk about it for a few min-
utes.
First, let me be clear: The United
States is not responsible for Iran’s
reckless activity and its violent ways.
It is time once again to thrust Iran’s
long, shameful record of malign behav-
ior back into the spotlight.
For the past 40 years, Iran has re-
fused to behave as a responsible mem-
ber of the international community.
Indeed, the magnitude of the Iranian
regime’s caustic behavior both at home
and abroad is overwhelming. Respon-
sible nations do not threaten the sov-
ereignty of their neighbors by funding
terrorists. Responsible nations do not
catalyze sectarian identities and pro-
voke violence in the region. Respon-
sible nations do not prop up the mur-
derous regime of Bashar al-Assad in
Syria. Responsible nations do not care-
lessly spread dangerous missile tech-
nology to violent extremist groups
that threaten the lives of civilians. Re-
sponsible nations do not attack embas-
sies and hold hostages. Yet the Iranian
regime has done all of these things and
persists.
Make no mistake. The Iranian re-
gime has American blood on its hands.
We all recall the dark days in Iraq and
the Iranian roadside bombs that took
the lives and maimed our servicemen
and women.
Today, America’s sons and daughters
deployed abroad are again at risk. The
amendment in front of this body will
tie the hands of our commanders and
prevent our troops from even acting in
self-defense. Additionally, this amend-
ment unnecessarily takes options off
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.043 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4522 June 25, 2019
the table, telegraphs our foreign policy
to our adversaries, and emboldens
those who wish us harm.
No one seeks a conflict with Iran—
not the President of the United States,
not this body, and not the American
people. The U.S. Government has made
clear our willingness to negotiate with
Iran.
The Iranian people are a proud peo-
ple. They have a proud history. They
are the descendants of the Persian cul-
ture, one of the greatest cultures on
the face of the earth. The Iranian peo-
ple deserve better than what they are
getting from the regime in power now
in Iran.
The fact remains that the Iranian re-
gime is faced with a sharp choice. The
regime must choose between continued
terrorist activity and behaving as a re-
sponsible member of the international
community. The Iranian regime should
sit down and think about the road that
they are pursuing.
Like all countries, they want na-
tional security for their people. Is the
road to national security trying to de-
velop a nuclear weapon that the world
has told them they can’t develop? Is it
continuing funding terrorists? Is it
continuing the malign activities that
it continues within Syria? None of
these things gives them the national
security they want.
They should take a lesson from
North Korea. North Korea pursued this
for generations. But in the last 18
months, North Korea sat down and
said: Do you know what? Our national
security is better served by picking
door No. 2 instead of door No. 1. As a
result of that, the threat that North
Korea has been under has been greatly
lifted.
This particular amendment is an
amendment that has a place in the de-
bate, but it has no place in this par-
ticular bill. First of all, it is not within
the jurisdiction of the committee that
has this bill in front of them. It is
within the jurisdiction of our com-
mittee, the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee. These issues on war powers and
the President’s ability to use military
force deserve thoughtful and reasoned
debate. It is not a cavalier amendment
like this that takes away the ability of
our men and women to actually defend
themselves.
I urge my colleagues to cast a ‘‘no’’
vote on this amendment and get on
with the serious business and the im-
portant business of passing the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
AGREEMENT
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that a letter from
the chairman and the vice chairman of
the Intelligence Committee regarding
the referral of S. 1879 be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE,
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE,
Washington, DC, June 25, 2019.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR MCCONNELL: Pursuant to
section 3(b) of S. Res. 400 of the 94th Con-
gress, as amended by S. Res. 445 of the 108th
Congress, we request that S. 1879, the Pro-
tect our Universities Act of 2019, be sequen-
tially referred to the Senate Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence for a period not to ex-
ceed ten days.
Sincerely,
RICHARD BURR,
Chairman.
MARK R. WARNER,
Vice Chairman.
f
MINIMUM WAGE
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, this
month, we surpassed the record for the
longest period in American history
without an increase in the minimum
wage. It has been nearly a decade since
minimum wage workers last got a
raise—literally a decade. Because of in-
flation, the salary of a minimum wage
worker today is worth $3,000 less than
it was in 2009. Think about that. It is
not like minimum wage workers are
making a lot of money. A minimum
wage worker’s salary today is equiva-
lent to $3,000 less than it was a decade
ago because of inflation.
President Trump and Republicans in
Congress don’t have a plan and don’t
even propose to have a plan. In fact,
they block any plans the rest of us
have. They don’t have a plan to give
millions of workers a raise. Why? Be-
cause the corporate lobbyists going in
and out of the office of the Senate ma-
jority leader don’t want them to.
We know it is not just minimum
wage workers who are losing out on
money in their pockets because the
President and the Members of this
body always stand on the side of cor-
porate interests, always put their
thumb on the scale supporting corpora-
tions over workers. Look at the prior-
ities Democrats fight for every day in
this body, and then look at what this
administration does. It is pretty clear
who is on the side of American work-
ers.
Democrats have plans to raise the
minimum wage to $15 an hour. Presi-
dent Trump is against it. He wants to
do nothing to raise wages.
Democrats have a plan to strengthen
collective bargaining rights to give
workers more power in the workplace—
the PRO Act. President Trump nomi-
nates judge after judge who puts their
thumb on the scale for Wall Street over
consumers and workers.
Democrats have a plan to put more
money back in the pockets of 114 mil-
lion American workers—the Working
Families Tax Relief Act. It means if
you are making $25,000 or $30,000 and if
you have children or if you don’t have
children, through the earned-income
tax credit, you get more money in your
pocket. Again, President Trump and
the special interest Republicans in this
town show their hostility to workers
by opposing it.
President Trump, though, did sign a
tax cut for corporations that led to
record stock buybacks. The tax cut
that President Trump pushed through
this Senate, with the majority leader
doing his groundwork for him—the bill
he pushed, the tax cut he pushed
through the Senate, over time, more
than 75 percent of that tax cut will go
to the richest 1 percent of the people.
Think about that. There was $11⁄2 tril-
lion in tax cuts. Who benefits? Sev-
enty-five percent of the benefits go to
the richest 1 percent of the people in
this country.
Democrats also have a plan to give
American workers more control over
their lives and their schedules—the
Schedules that Work Act, which we
will be introducing soon.
We have a plan to protect workers
from companies that steal their hard-
earned money by refusing to pay them
for the hours they have worked—the
Wage Theft Protection Act. Think
about how that works. You work at a
salary. Say you are making $35,000 a
year. You are a night manager at a
fast-food restaurant. The company de-
cides to list you as a manager, so you
are making a $35,000-a-year salary. The
company can work you 42, 45, 50 hours
a week and pay you not a cent for the
hours above 40 because you earn that
salary and because the company de-
clared you manager. I call it wage
theft.
We used to have laws in this country
that we enacted many years ago, up-
dated with President Ford, President
Nixon, and then President Obama, but
President Trump has said no and scaled
that back. His administration rolled
back rule after rule that protects
workers from companies that cheat
them out of the wages they have
earned.
Again, whose side are you on when
you have a President who is hostile to
workers and who betrays workers while
talking a good game but is clearly on
the side of corporate interests every
single time?
Democrats are united in demanding
that any new North America Free
Trade Agreement—any new NAFTA
have strong labor standards so we don’t
end up with another race to the bottom
on workers’ rights and benefits. So far,
President Trump hasn’t produced a
deal that protects workers from cor-
porations that want to move to Mexico
so they can pay the workers less. In
fact, the Trump tax cut bill that Sen-
ator MCCONNELL—down the hall—
fought for and rammed through this
Senate by only a couple of votes gave
corporations a 21-percent tax rate.
You shut down the Lordstown GM
plant in Youngstown, OH. You are pay-
ing a 21-percent tax rate. When you
move to Mexico, you pay half that tax
rate. You pay 10.5 percent. That is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.045 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4523
June 25, 2019
what has happened as the President
has failed to renegotiate NAFTA to
help workers.
Let me give you an example. Let me
give a real quick story. After NAFTA
passed, 5 months later, I went to the
Mexican border with a friend. I went
across the border and visited a Mexican
auto plant. That auto plant looked just
like an auto plant in Cleveland or just
like an auto plant in Cincinnati and
just like the Jeep plant in Toledo.
There was one difference. The work-
ers were working hard. The floors were
clean. The technology was up-to-date.
There was one difference between the
auto plant in Mexico and the auto
plant in Toledo. The difference was the
Mexican auto plant didn’t have a park-
ing lot because the workers who work
there can’t afford to buy the cars they
make.
Yet President Trump’s renegotiation
of NAFTA left those workers’ wages
out so the workers will continue to be
far, far underpaid in Mexico, will have
weaker environmental laws—especially
with the Trump tax plan—encouraging
more American companies to move to
Mexico.
On another issue so important to so
many in this country, especially elder-
ly people, Democrats have a plan to
lower the price of prescription drugs.
One news outlet said it combines just
about every policy idea that drug lob-
byists hate. Yet President Trump and
Members of this Senate, all with good
healthcare paid for by taxpayers—don’t
ever forget that. All of us who rep-
resent people in this country have good
healthcare paid for by taxpayers. They
are all trying to take away the protec-
tions for Americans with preexisting
conditions.
Let me go back to the overtime issue
for a minute. Three years ago, I stood
in Columbus to announce the Obama
administration was going to raise the
salary threshold to earn overtime pay
and make millions of more workers eli-
gible. That would have meant 4 million
Americans and 130,000 Ohioans were
going to get a raise. As I explained ear-
lier, when you make $35,000 or $40,000
and are paid a salary, they call you
management. So when you work more
than 40 hours, you don’t get paid a
nickel for any time you work over 40
hours. So what President Obama’s rule
did was give a raise to 130,000 Ohioans,
4 million workers, but workers didn’t
get that raise because attorneys gen-
eral—far-right and extremely conserv-
ative attorneys general—around the
country first sued to stop it, and then
when President Trump won the elec-
tion, he came up with a new rule that
leaves most of those workers behind.
We are talking about people making
$38,000 or $40,000 a year—middle man-
agers at banks, restaurants, and gro-
cery stores. They are often required to
work 60 to 70 hours a week without get-
ting a cent of overtime. It is an Amer-
ican value and what we stand for as a
nation. It is how we should govern,
through the eyes of workers, through
the dignity of work. If people work 50
or 60 hours—obviously, Senators and
bank presidents and CEO’s and doctors
and lawyers shouldn’t get paid over-
time, but people making $35,000 or
$40,000, if you work more than 40 hours
a week, you should get overtime. That
is what we used to do in this country,
but we don’t do it all the time now be-
cause of President Trump’s opposition.
Democrats have a bill to fix this, the
Restoring Overtime Pay Act, that
would allow 4.6 million Americans to
be newly eligible for overtime pay.
The President clearly doesn’t under-
stand how somebody living on $35,000
or $40,000 a year—what that person’s
challenges are. The President thinks it
is fine to leave those workers behind.
So much for fighting for American
workers. That was his campaign prom-
ise. He would put them back to work.
He would have good manufacturing
wages for them. He would pay them. He
would make sure they made good
wages. It is all part of Donald Trump’s
phony populism. He divides to distract
from the fact that his administration
looks like a Wall Street retreat.
True populism is never racist; it is
never anti-Semitic. True populists
don’t pass tax cuts for rich people and
leave out workers with children. Popu-
lists don’t choose Wall Street over con-
sumers. Populists don’t choose cor-
porations over workers. Populists don’t
choose health insurance companies
over sick people.
It all comes down to whose side you
are on. Are you going to fight for the
dignity of work or are you going to
fight for the privilege of the wealthy?
The President promised to fight for
American workers. He breaks that
promise every day. He has broken that
promise for more than 2 years. If you
love this country, you fight for the
people who make it work. I wish Presi-
dent Trump would remember that.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow
morning.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:04 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, June 26,
2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JN6.048 S25JNPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E831
June 25, 2019
HONORING THE CAREER OF LORE
SEGAL NÉE GROSZMANN
HON. JERROLD NADLER
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the illustrious 55-year career of
acclaimed writer and Upper West Side resi-
dent Lore Segal née Groszmann.
Lore Segal was born to a Jewish middle-
class family in Vienna, Austria in 1928. Shortly
after Hitler’s annexation of Austria in 1938,
she participated in the first wave of the
Kindertransport which brought thousands of
children to safety in England. It was here she
first began writing: Segal penned impassioned
letters to refugee committees and potential
sponsors advocating for her parents to be
brought to England, ultimately resulting in her
parents’ arrival a year later with domestic la-
borers’ visas. Although this effort reunited her
family, her parents’ roles as domestic laborers
required Segal to live with foster families until
she was eighteen. After earning her degree in
English Literature from the University of Lon-
don, Segal spent three years in the Dominican
Republic, finally making her way to New York
with her mother in 1951.
Segal’s writing career began in earnest
when she began chronicling her experiences
as a young émigré living with different families
in England in series of articles in The New
Yorker, which later formed the basis of her
first novel, Other People’s Houses, published
in 1964. Segal’s other works include five nov-
els, including Shakespeare’s Kitchen (a finalist
for the Pulitzer Prize in Fiction in 2008), eight
children’s books including Tell Me a Mitzi,
translations such as The Juniper Tree, an ad-
aptation of Grimm tales on which she collabo-
rated with her friend Maurice Sendak, and in-
numerable short stories and essays. Lore
Segal’s most recent book is the 2019 collec-
tion of published and unpublished works enti-
tled, The Journal I Did Not Keep: New and
Selected Writing. Segal taught writing for al-
most thirty years at notable institutions, includ-
ing as a tenured professor at University of Illi-
nois at Chicago and Ohio State University, as
well as Columbia University, Princeton, Sarah
Lawrence and the 92 Y. She has also been
recognized for her work with numerous
awards and honors including a Guggenheim
Fellowship, National Endowment for the Arts
grants and O. Henry awards.
What makes Segal’s writing so enduring is
the masterful way she balances the themes of
displacement and otherness, central to her
identities as a refugee and a foster child, with
the emotions, humor and conflicts inherent to
the universal human condition. Her work pro-
vides a unique insight into the immigrant per-
spective on the American Dream and the Jew-
ish diaspora. Segal’s contributions to the di-
verse community of immigrant voices who il-
lustrate the complexities and vibrancy of
American life are well-deserving of tribute.
Madam Speaker, I ask all my colleagues to
join me in celebrating the 55th Anniversary of
Lore Segal’s first publication, and in recog-
nizing the amazing achievements and contin-
ued impact of her work.
f
HONORING M. DIANE HAYS
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I pause to recognize M. Diane Hays, who
passed away on June 20, 2019. It is both fit-
ting and proper to reflect and recognize her
life’s accomplishments and for all of her efforts
in serving the greater Independence, Missouri,
community.
Russell and Diane Hays started the Coins
for Canines program in 1997 after budget re-
straints barred the city from purchasing a re-
placement K–9 after its only working dog
passed away. Mr. and Mrs. Hays raised funds
by placing jugs at local businesses, presenting
donation request letters to various groups, and
lobbying the Jackson County Legislature for
funds derived from the anti-drug sales tax.
The funds were used to purchase K–9’s, their
training, and eventually repair and renovation
of the Police Department’s new K–9 training
center. In 2002 Mr. and Mrs. Hays received
the Missouri Peace Officers Association’s Citi-
zens of the Year Award. This couple em-
bodies the spirit of volunteerism, and their
support of law enforcement illustrates the
model of exemplary citizenship.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you join me in
offering our condolences to Diane’s friends
and family, particularly her husband, Russell
Hays, their daughters Kim and Lynda, their
five grandchildren, and seventeen great grand-
children. She will be greatly missed in Inde-
pendence. I would also like to thank the Hays
family for sharing Diane’s heart and her com-
mitment to our K–9 officers with the commu-
nity for so many years.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MARJORIE
‘‘PEGGY’’ MURPHY
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the community contribu-
tions of Marjorie ‘‘Peggy’’ Murphy at time of
her retirement. Peggy has been a prominent
and passionate member of Northeastern and
Central Pennsylvania’s theater community for
most of her life. Both on the stage and in the
community, Peggy has dedicated her career to
making a positive impact on those around her.
For over 50 years, Peggy has been actively
involved in bringing live community theater to
audiences in Wayne County. She has directed
and performed in all kinds of productions, from
dramas and comedies to musicals and mys-
teries. And her involvement extends far be-
yond the stage. Along with her late husband
Richard Murphy, Peggy helped create the Ritz
Company Players, a tight-knit group of com-
munity theater performers who forged an un-
breakable bond through their love of the arts.
Even after her retirement from the board,
Peggy remains a board member emeritus for
her continued dedication to the company and
for the wisdom she entrusts to the next gen-
eration of leaders in the theater community.
Outside of the world of theater, Peggy has
also served her community in several other
capacities. For the past 43 years, for example,
Peggy has been a board member of the
Wayne County Redevelopment Authority, and
for three decades she has served on the
board of the Wayne County Housing Authority.
In those roles, Peggy has been instrumental in
bringing federal funds to the county for hous-
ing and community development projects.
Peggy has also been very active in public
policy issues and politics, working on the local
level in that regard in Hawley for 40 years.
She was also the National Vice-Chair of Com-
missioners of the National Association of
Housing and Redevelopment Authorities, and
she co-authored the National Association of
Housing and Redevelopment Officials’ Hand-
book for Commissioners.
Through her service both in and outside the
theater, Peggy has been an illustrious and
impactful resident of Wayne County. Her life of
service is one to be recognized and cele-
brated.
It is an honor to recognize Peggy Murphy at
the time of her retirement for her many com-
munity accomplishments. Her dedication to
Wayne County is admirable and will help en-
sure a smooth succession to the next genera-
tion of leaders. May her journey continue to in-
spire our community, not just through artistic
expression but also through Peggy’s contin-
uous, selfless service to others.
f
RECOGNIZING THE INCREDIBLE
WORK OF OUR VA CENTERS
HON. DEBBIE LESKO
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize some of the incredible work our
VA centers are doing. Joseph Faranda is a
U.S. Navy veteran who served for almost nine
years. During his service, he was diagnosed
with cancer. Joe was able to beat cancer the
first time, but 17 years later he was diagnosed
with cancer again.
When Joe reached out to schedule an ap-
pointment at the VA, the team urgently placed
an order for an ultrasound and for him to be
seen by the end of the week. When Joe went
for his ultrasound, his doctor immediately rec-
ommended he check himself into the VA’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25JN8.001 E25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E832 June 25, 2019
Emergency Room—advice that would ulti-
mately save his life.
Joe received treatment and support from his
care team and is now recovering quickly. Joe
said, ‘‘I can confidently say that if I need to re-
turn to the Phoenix VA, I will be in good
hands.’’
I want to recognize Doctor Ronald Jacoby
and Nurse Shauna Fox for their exceptional
care and dedication to Joe and all of our Ari-
zona veterans. Thankfully, Joe’s prognosis is
very good, and I have full faith he will beat
cancer once again.
f
HONORING BRIGADIER GENERAL
KILLEA ON HIS RETIREMENT
HON. MIKE LEVIN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor Brigadier General Kevin J.
Killea on the event of his retirement.
Brigadier General Killea has dedicated his
life to service. Born in Rockville Centre, New
York, he graduated from St. Johns University,
the Naval War College, the Industrial College
of Armed Forces, and the Harvard Business
School Advanced Management Program.
In March 1988, he was commissioned as a
second Lieutenant in the United States Marine
Corps. He is a career F/A–18 fighter pilot that
included multiple combat tours and key billets,
which are highlighted by his command of Ma-
rine Fighter Attack Squadron 122 in the West-
ern Pacific from 2004 to 2006, and the Marine
Aircraft Group 11 from 2009 and 2011. He
also served as the Chief of Staff to the Com-
bined Joint Task Force Operation Inherent Re-
solve, and as Assistant Director, Land Do-
main, for Homeland Defense Policy for the Of-
fice of the Secretary of Defense.
In July 2016, Brigadier General Killea as-
sumed command of Marine Corps Installations
West, Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton,
and it has been my recent honor to work with
him. He has had a profound impact on Camp
Pendleton and the surrounding residents pro-
viding service support to more than 50,000
Marines, Sailors, families and civilian employ-
ees. He has been continually focused on en-
suring our warfighters have all of the vital
base support necessary to be operationally
ready, and all the issues that impact of the
quality of life for families. He has been a lead-
er in environmental issues and has been dedi-
cated to finding solutions to a range of com-
plex problems to ensure all of the five Marine
Corps West Coast installations remain tremen-
dous neighbors to our local communities.
Brigadier General Killea has dedicated his
life to serving his country. We cannot thank
him enough for his service to Camp Pen-
dleton, the Marine Corps, and the United
States of America.
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AND RELATED AGENCIES APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 19, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 3055) making ap-
propriations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes:
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Chair, I
rise to speak on the Amendment offered by
Mr. BABIN.
Mr. BABIN’s amendment concerns the orga-
nization of space activities within the Depart-
ment of Commerce and its National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
NOAA is organized at the Department of
Commerce to include the Office of Space
Commerce and the Commercial Remote
Sensing Regulatory Affairs Office.
Commercial space is a growing and vibrant
sector of our economy. Federal government
responsibilities on commercial space, including
those of the Commercial Remote Sensing
Regulatory Affairs Office, should be evaluated
and considered to determine if any changes
are needed to support the Office’s ability to
meet the pace and innovation of the commer-
cial remote sensing industry.
Mr. BABIN’s amendment would move the
Commercial Remote Sensing Regulatory Af-
fairs Office and the Office of Space Com-
merce into a single organizational entity within
the Department of Commerce.
Is this a good idea? What would be the im-
plications?
I don’t know, but I do know that these are
questions that need answers. And I, as Chair
of the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology plan to address them as the Com-
mittee and its Subcommittee on Space and
Aeronautics turn to commercial space activi-
ties and issues.
These matters should be considered within
the Committee of jurisdiction, not within a
multi-agency spending bill where they cannot
be debated or reviewed in the light of day.
Short-circuiting regular legislative order de-
nies opportunities for Members of the Com-
mittee of Jurisdiction to legislate on policy
issues they came to Congress to address. I
trust that this amendment will be removed be-
fore this appropriations bill heads to the Presi-
dent.
f
HONORING DR. ROBERT
VARTABEDIAN
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize Dr. Robert
Vartabedian. Dr. Vartabedian is retiring as the
President of Missouri Western State University
in St. Joseph, Missouri, after an exceptional
career and distinguished tenure at Missouri
Western State University.
Dr. Vartabedian has taught at universities
across the country. While each was a very dif-
ferent institution, there was one common
thread to each of them—Dr. Vartabedian has
made each of them better. If you set foot on
the Missouri Western campus during his time
there, even if you somehow managed to not
see it, you could not have helped but felt it.
That unspoken ‘thing’ where a new level is
being achieved, a new standard is being set,
a new normal is being cemented into place. Of
course, you can point to Craig Field at Spratt
Stadium, the Craig School of Business Center
for Entrepreneurship, the Kit Bond Science
and Technology Incubator, the Walter Cronkite
Museum, or the sea of red that comes with
the Kansas City Chiefs training camp. While
he deserves credit for those things and they
will remain as reminders of his time here, they
are not his true legacy. His true legacy is in
his students. The next generation of entre-
preneurs and thinkers. The new leaders for
northern Missouri, the new educators who will
carry along his legacy even further. Those stu-
dents, those lives he has touched directly or
indirectly are his true and lasting legacy.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me in recognizing Dr. Robert Vartabedian
upon a well-earned retirement. I wish him the
very best and a well-deserved rest. I am hon-
ored to represent him in the United States
Congress.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I missed votes on Thursday, June 20
and Friday, June 21. Had I been present, I
would have voted as follows:
Roll Call Vote Number 368 (Passing H.
AMDT. 389 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
JOHN RUTHERFORD): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 369 (Passing H.
AMDT. 389 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
JOHN RUTHERFORD): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 370 (Passing H.
AMDT. 398 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. EARL
BLUMENAUER): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 371 (Passing H.
AMDT. 402 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. JIM
BANKS): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 372 (Passing H.
AMDT. 411 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
JARED GOLDEN): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 373 (Passing H.
AMDT. 423 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
HALEY STEVENS): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 374 (Passing H.
AMDT. 424 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
LAUREN UNDERWOOD): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 375 (Passing H.
AMDT. 426 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. JIM
BANKS): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 376 (Passing H.
AMDT. 428 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
GREG PENCE): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 377 (Passing H.
AMDT. 429 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. ABI-
GAIL SPANBERGER): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 378 (Passing H.
AMDT. 432 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ): YES;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JN8.002 E25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E833
June 25, 2019
Roll Call Vote Number 379 (Passing H.
AMDT. 434 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
FRANK PALLONE): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 380 (Passing H.
AMDT. 435 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
VERN BUCHANAN): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 381 (Passing H.
AMDT. 436 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. JEFF
DUNCAN): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 382 (Passing H.
AMDT. 438 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. EARL
BLUMENAUER): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 383 (Passing H.
AMDT. 439 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. PAUL
GOSAR): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 384 (Passing H.
AMDT. 441 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. JEFF
DUNCAN): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 385 (Passing H.
AMDT. 442 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
MARKWAYNE MULLIN): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 386 (Passing H.
AMDT. 443 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
MARKWAYNE MULLIN): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 387 (Passing H.
AMDT. 446 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. GAR-
RET GRAVES): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 388 (Passing H.
AMDT. 447 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. JODY
HICE): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 389 (Passing H.
AMDT. 448 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. JIM
BANKS): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 390 (Passing H.
AMDT. 449 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
ANDY BIGGS): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 391 (Passing H.
AMDT. 450 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. JOE
CUNNINGHAM): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 392 (Passing H.
AMDT. 451 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. JOE
CUNNINGHAM): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 393 (Passing H.
AMDT. 452 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
SALUD CARBAJAL): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 394 (Passing H.
AMDT. 453 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
KATIE HILL): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 395 (Passing H.
AMDT. 454 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. KIM
SCHRIER): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 396 (Passing H.
AMDT. 459 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. MIKE
BOST): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 397 (Passing H.
AMDT. 461 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep.
JARED GOLDEN): YES; and
Roll Call Vote Number 398 (Passing H.
AMDT. 462 to H.R. 3055 offered by Rep. BEN
MCADAMS): YES.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF
LINSEY PORTER
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the memory of Linsey Porter, a former
mayor of the city of Highland Park, Michigan.
His advocacy and leadership will be missed.
Born in Detroit in 1954, Linsey Porter grew
up in Highland Park, where the Porter Family
moved to in 1955. He graduated from High-
land Park High School in 1972 and continued
his education at LeMoyne Owen College in
Tennessee where he completed four years.
During that time, Porter founded and was first
President of the Out Of Town Students Asso-
ciation to make the school, which was not
equipped to support out-of-state students, a
more welcoming place. This marked the be-
ginning of his career in advocacy.
After college, Porter returned to Highland
Park. Though a diligent worker, Porter found
his work in insurance to be unfulfilling. He
gave up his position to return to advocacy and
run for Mayor of Highland Park because he
wanted to help people grow and have his city
be a better place for people to live. Porter was
elected the 30th Mayor of Highland Park in
November of 1991. He was the first Mayor in
Highland Park to be elected to three consecu-
tive four-year terms. Prior to being elected and
re-elected Mayor, he also served two terms on
the City Council, with his last term as Council
President.
Linsey Porter was most proud of the eco-
nomic revitalization that occurred during his
tenure as Chief Executive Officer for the City
of Highland Park. With his vision and energy,
he secured millions to fund new development,
including single-family and multi-family hous-
ing, two shopping centers, new police cars,
fire engines, and the creation of Oakland In-
dustrial Park, which location once was the
world headquarters of the Chrysler Corpora-
tion. Two of his greatest accomplishments
were encouraging the Budco Company to
build their World Headquarters in Highland
Park (1000 jobs) and the expansion, renova-
tion of the Davison Freeway, America’s first
freeway.
Please join me in tribute to Linsey Porter as
we pay our respects and honor to his family.
f
IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPART-
MENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDU-
CATION, AND RELATED AGEN-
CIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020
(H.R. 2740)
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 2740, the first Fiscal Year
2020 appropriations package that includes
funding for the departments of Labor, Health
and Human Services, Education, Defense,
State, and Energy.
The Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies bill includes
$189.9 billion, $11.8 billion over FY19 levels,
in critical investments in medical research,
public health, workforce training, and edu-
cation for the next generation of Americans.
Among the important provisions in this bill are
$41.1 billion for the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) for lifesaving medical and dis-
ease research, and $760 million for Commu-
nity Service Block Grants (CSBG) that will go
directly to Community Action Agencies to help
low-income families rise out of poverty. The
bill also contains a provision that will enable
states to develop best practices to identify and
treat newborns with a Congenital Heart De-
fect. This is an issue that I have worked on
since I served in the Minnesota State House,
and I am pleased to see its inclusion.
The Defense bill includes $690.2 billion in
funding, $15.8 billion above FY19 levels, im-
proves our national security, and ensures that
our servicemen and women will have the
equipment and training necessary to complete
their missions and come home safe. The bill
includes a 3.1 percent military pay raise and
funds the Sexual Assault Prevention and Re-
sponse programs for the services at $297 mil-
lion, a significant increase over FY19 levels.
As the Vice Chair of the Defense Appropria-
tions Subcommittee, I am particularly pleased
that the bill includes $1.26 billion for defense
environmental remediation activities, $14.8
million above FY19 levels. This funding will
continue Department of Defense efforts to re-
mediate contaminated soil, ground and drink-
ing water at formerly used and current de-
fense installations. This includes $13 million to
study and assess the levels of PFOS/PFOA
contamination at domestic military facilities.
The bill also makes a $33.4 billion investment
in Defense Health Programs, including in-
creased funding for medical research that will
help save the lives of our service members
and veterans.
The State, Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs bill includes $56.4 billion in funding,
$2.2 billion above FY19 levels, and is a robust
investment in global health and nutrition pro-
grams, national security, and diplomacy. Im-
portant provisions in this bill include $2.6 bil-
lion for maternal child health and infectious
disease programs, $750 million for family plan-
ning services, and $5.9 billion for PEPFAR to
combat HIV/AIDS. I am also pleased to see
strong levels of funding for the Global Food
Security Act, a critical piece of U.S. foreign as-
sistance in reducing global hunger, improving
child nutrition, and finally achieving food secu-
rity around the world.
The Energy and Water Development, and
Related Agencies bill includes $46.4 billion, an
increase of $1.8 billion over FY19, and makes
needed investments in water infrastructure
projects that impact every state in our nation.
That is why robust funding for the Army Corps
of Engineers, the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund, the Bureau of Reclamation, and the
water resources projects in this legislation are
so important. My district is home to the St.
Croix River and the Mississippi River. My con-
stituents know that the Mississippi River is a
working river, and failures in our infrastructure
can significantly impact the overall economy
by hurting our transportation, agriculture, and
recreation industries.
Madam Speaker, as the appropriations
process moves forward on the floor, it is clear
that Democrats are making critical investments
for the people. Democrats will continue to be
loud and clear about the importance of quality
healthcare for all, education for our children
and grandchildren, investments in infrastruc-
ture, and ensuring our national security. H.R.
2740 is a down payment on all of these impor-
tant priorities for our constituents.
I strongly encourage my colleagues to sup-
port this legislation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JN8.004 E25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E834 June 25, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF THE LATE DR. LAMUEL A.
STANISLAUS
HON. YVETTE D. CLARKE
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I would like to honor the life and legacy of
the late Dr. Lamuel A. Stanislaus. Dr.
Stanislaus was born on the beautiful island of
Grenada and came to the United States in
1945 where he received his Bachelor of
Science and Doctor of Dental Surgery degrees
from Howard University.
Dr. Stanislaus practiced dentistry in upstate
New York briefly before moving to Brooklyn
Heights, where he would service the Brooklyn
Heights community for 32 years. In 1985, Dr.
Stanislaus was appointed Permanent Rep-
resentative of Grenada to the United Nations
for five years and served as Ambassador-at-
Large and Deputy Permanent Representative
for two years. He was later re-appointed as
the Permanent Representative of Grenada to
the United Nations until 2004. There he be-
came a seasoned, substantive and eloquent
voice on behalf of his country Grenada,
Carriacou and Petite Martinique. On occasion,
he was also delegated to speak on behalf of
the Caribbean Community (CARlCOM) and
the Group of Latin America and the Caribbean
Countries (GRULAC).
To add to his tremendous achievements, Dr.
Stanislaus was also an activist in his commu-
nity. As a visionary leader, Dr. Stanislaus
founded the West Indian Day Carnival Pa-
rade—a national day of celebration and valor
for Caribbean tradition and culture. He left be-
hind a movement that began in Harlem and
was relocated to my district where Central
Brooklynites still partake in celebrating our
beautiful heritage. Dr. Stanislaus was well-
versed in the rich history of the Caribbean. It
goes without saying that Dr. Stanislaus’ com-
mitment to public service represents leader-
ship, scholarship, integrity and inspiration in
our community.
Dr. Lamuel A. Stanislaus was the recipient
of numerous professional, civic and political
awards. It is my distinct honor to announce
that on Saturday, June 15, 2019, Rutland
Road between Flatbush and Bedford Avenues
in Brooklyn, New York was renamed after his
namesake, the Dr. Lamuel A. Stanislaus Way.
Sir Lamuel A. Stanislaus’ life demonstrated a
love of God, humankind, love of country, love
of Grenada and its people as well as the Car-
ibbean community at large. Dr. Stanislaus was
and will remain a motivation to all.
f
RECOGNIZING MR. RONALD E.
FEILE FOR HIS SERVICE AND
DEDICATION TO AMERICA’S
SPACE PROGRAM
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, today I rise in
recognition of Mr. Ronald E. Feile of Titusville,
FL, a constituent who recently retired after
thirty-six years of working at the Kennedy
Space Center as an air traffic controller, and,
most recently as a lead contractor for the
Washington Consulting Group.
Ronald Feile began his aviation career in
the U.S. Army where he served as part of a
mobile VFR tower crew in Vietnam from April
1970 through November 1971. In 1971, he be-
came control chief of combined tower and
radar facility and was placed in charge of
training personnel and scheduling logistical
supply which was vital to our operation in Viet-
nam. He also served as flight operations liai-
son to the South Vietnamese army and
earned the Army Commendation Medal.
Following his military service and service as
an air traffic controller with the FAA, Ron was
recruited to work on our space program at the
Cape serving as the lead Air Traffic Controller
for the Shuttle Landing Facility and the Military
Radar Unit. In that role, Ron was intimately in-
volved with our Shuttle program, coordinating
air and ground support for Shuttle launch and
landing events. He also provided his expertise
for major satellite and launch payload deliv-
eries.
Throughout his career, Ron has been
awarded NASA’s Silver Snoopy Award and
NASA’s Space Flight Awareness Award. He
was also interviewed by NASA as part of its
oral history of the Shuttle program. In addition
to these honors, he will receive the highest
tribute for those in aviation history. Ronald
Freile’s name will be inscribed in the wall of
the Air and Space Museum. Ron’s name will
join the names of Buzz Aldrin, the Wright
Brothers, Charles Lindberg, John Glenn,
Ameila Earhart, and countless other pioneers
of our aviation history.
Having worked on our nation’s space pro-
gram as a young man, I have come to know
many of the great Americans like Ron who
have dedicated their lives to serving our nation
and making our space program so successful.
I ask members of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives to join me and Ron’s family,
friends, and colleagues at the Washington
Consulting Group in recognizing his work and
contribution to America’s mission in space.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF KEVIN
BOSHEARS, DIRECTOR OF THE
OFFICE OF SMALL AND DIS-
ADVANTAGED BUSINESS UTILI-
ZATION AT THE DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise to honor Kevin Boshears, the
Director of the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity’s (DHS) Office of Small and Disadvan-
taged Business Utilization (OSDBU) upon his
retirement from Federal service. Over the past
sixteen years, Mr. Boshears has forged a rep-
utation as a trusted resource to small busi-
nesses that seek to provide goods and serv-
ices to DHS. From the Department’s earliest
days, Mr. Boshears helped create a culture
within DHS that prioritizes engagement with
small businesses in furtherance of its diverse
missions.
In my work on the Committee on Homeland
Security, I have come to appreciate his stead-
fast commitment to opening doors of oppor-
tunity to small, disadvantaged and minority-
owned business that face barriers to entering
the Federal marketplace. Under Mr. Boshear’s
leadership, DHS has the distinction of being
the largest agency to earn a ‘‘A’’ grade on the
Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Small
Business Procurement Scorecard and it has
retained that score for nine years in a row.
Remarkably, in fiscal year 2017, DHS earned
its third ‘‘A+’’ rating, awarding nearly 35 per-
cent of total contracting dollars to small busi-
nesses, exceeding the government-wide goal
of 23 percent.
Mr. Boshears dedication to the small busi-
ness community has resulted in many other
accolades throughout his impactful career. In
2005, Mr. Boshears received the SBA’s Fed-
eral Gold Star Award of Excellence in recogni-
tion of his efforts to carry out the aggressive
goals and strategic initiatives that help ensure
a role for small businesses in the federal mar-
ketplace. And, in July 2018, Mr. Boshears re-
ceived the prestigious DHS Management’s
Award for Technical Excellence, followed by
the DHS Secretary’s Award for Leadership Ex-
cellence in November 2018.
As Mr. Boshears closes out his time at DHS
and as a civil servant, I rise to honor his con-
tributions and wish him well.
f
HONORING THE AUBURN HIGH
SCHOOL BASEBALL TEAM
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I offer
these remarks in honor of the Auburn High
School baseball team, which won the Virginia
High School League 1A baseball champion-
ship at Radford University on June 14, 2019.
The Eagles won a victory over Lancaster to
reclaim the title, which they had previously
won in 2017.
Auburn’s victory brought their season to 25–
3. Excellent pitching held Lancaster to three
hits, while Auburn scored nine runs to achieve
a 9–0 victory. Congratulations are in order for
the team and Coach Eric Altizer, as well as
the student body, teachers, administrators,
and fans at Auburn. I was particularly pleased
to be able to congratulate them in person after
the game. It is another trophy in Auburn’s im-
pressive collection of championships this year.
In fact, it came on the same day the Auburn
softball team won their title. It is truly remark-
able when a high school wins two state cham-
pionships not only in the same year, but on
the same day.
f
REMEMBERING BENNY WONG
HON. NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to remember Benny Wong, a community
member, local leader, media visionary and
fearless immigrant from Hong Kong, China.
For decades, Benny gave a voice to New
York’s Chinese-American community through
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JN8.006 E25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E835
June 25, 2019
his broadcasting company, Chung Wah Chi-
nese Broadcasting (CWCB).
Benny founded CWCB in 1968 as a non-
profit media platform spanning three states
and 50 square miles. Ever since, CWCB’s air-
waves have offered a sanctuary space for
thousands of Chinese speaking immigrants
and reigns the oldest Chinese language radio
station in the NYC area.
CWCB was also a catalyst for information
accessibility and public engagement. Fre-
quently featuring representatives from the So-
cial Services Administration, as well as mem-
bers from the City Council and State Senate,
CWCB provided our communities with the op-
portunity for dialogue concerning social serv-
ices, health and government.
At this time, I would like to express my pro-
found appreciation to Benny Wong for his con-
tributions to our New York community. As long
as CWCB continues serving our community,
Benny’s legacy will continue.
Our city would not be the same without him.
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AND RELATED AGECIES APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 19, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 3055) making ap-
propriations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes:
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Chair, I
wish to comment in support of the amendment
to H.R. 3055 offered by Representative LIZZIE
FLETCHER, Chair of the Environment Sub-
committee of the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology. This amendment
would require the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or
NOAA, to contract with the National Acad-
emies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine
to undertake an inaugural decadal study of the
U.S. weather enterprise.
Most Americans utilize weather forecasts on
a daily basis. Increasingly, businesses across
the country are relying on specialized weather
forecasts to make business decisions. With cli-
mate change causing severe weather events
to become more frequent and intense, like the
hurricanes that impact my state, accurate and
timely weather forecasts can be the difference
between whether or not people need to evac-
uate their homes.
However, while the U.S. is a global leader
in atmospheric and weather research, the na-
tion is falling behind in weather modeling and
forecast accuracy. These forecasts are essen-
tial for the protection of human lives and prop-
erty. There is a need to understand how the
members of the U.S. weather enterprise,
which is comprised of public, private, and aca-
demic partners, can better define their roles to
increase the overall efficiency of the enter-
prise, leverage and prioritize investments, and
improve weather models and forecast accu-
racy.
A decadal survey would provide policy-
makers with the relevant information to
prioritize investments in weather forecasting,
modeling, and data assimilation over the next
ten years; assess the current U.S. weather en-
terprise; and evaluate future potential federal
investments in research, weather satellites, ra-
dars, and other observation technologies to
ensure that all domestic users of weather in-
formation receive it in the most efficient and
effective manner possible. The decadal survey
would also evaluate the implementation of the
Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation
Act of 2017 by NOAA, which is the most re-
cent and comprehensive federal mandate
aimed at improving weather forecasts.
The National Academies of Sciences, Medi-
cine, and Engineering have previously con-
ducted a number of important decadal surveys
for various areas of science, including space
and Earth sciences, which have been widely
viewed as providing successful roadmaps for
the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration and NOAA in prioritizing future re-
search, observations, and missions. Similarly,
a weather decadal survey would create a
shared vision for the next generation of the
U.S. weather enterprise. The need for a ter-
restrial weather decadal survey was a topic of
discussion at the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology’s Environment Sub-
committee hearing on the U.S. weather enter-
prise in May.
Momentum and support for a weather
decadal survey have been growing over the
last couple of years, and I include in the
Record a letter from the University Corporation
for Atmospheric Research (UCAR) in support
of this amendment. UCAR represents over
100 of the leading U.S. colleges and univer-
sities providing training in atmospheric
sciences.
I urge my colleagues to support this amend-
ment.
UNIVERSITY CORPORATION FOR AT-
MOSPHERIC RESEARCH, OFFICE OF
THE PRESIDENT,
June 20, 2019.
Hon. JOSÉ SERRANO,
Chair, Committee on Appropriations,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. ROBERT ADERHOLT,
Ranking Member, Committee on Appropriations,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SERRANO AND RANKING
MEMBER ADERHOLT: As president of the Uni-
versity Corporation for Atmospheric Re-
search (UCAR) and on behalf of our 117 mem-
ber universities, I am writing to express our
support for Representative Fletcher’s
Amendment #110 for H.R. 3055, the Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Act, which would create
an inaugural decadal survey of the U.S.
weather enterprise.
A decadal survey for the U.S. weather en-
terprise would help policymakers and rel-
evant agencies prioritize investments and
coordinate efforts more effectively in the
near- and long-term, as well as help industry
and academia understand how to best assist
agencies in working towards common goals.
This decadal survey will assist the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) in achieving its initiatives outlined
in the Weather Research and Forecasting In-
novation Act of 2017, which include devel-
oping a formal plan for weather research, de-
veloping an annual report on the state of its
weather models, improving its watch-and-
warning system based on recommendations
from social and behavioral scientists, and
other provisions.
Between 1989 and 2000, the nation invested
an estimated $4.5 billion to modernize and
restructure the National Weather Service
(NWS), and to improve severe weather warn-
ing times and forecast accuracy. While the
NWS has made significant strides since that
time and further bolstered its supercom-
puting assets and modeling capabilities, it
stands at a critical juncture. It must decide
how to replace numerous weather satellite
and groundbased radar stations, which are
rapidly aging and becoming obsolete, with
new technologies and capabilities. Advance-
ments in digital radar technologies from
academia and other federal agencies, as well
as numerous industry and non-federally pro-
vided surface, boundary layer, and satellite
observations, need to be integrated into an
overall strategy, an effort whose value ex-
tends beyond its direct benefit to the NWS.
The National Academies Board on Atmos-
pheric Sciences and Climate (BASC) has al-
ready announced plans to ‘‘outline a vision
for the U.S. weather enterprise over the next
10–25 years’’ but need funding to execute the
study. The study would aim to identify a
community vision and framework for coordi-
nation as well as critical investments, insti-
tutions, and mechanisms needed to achieve
them. Over the past year and a half, BASC
has worked to garner support from the U.S.
weather enterprise’s three primary sectors:
the federal government, academia, and in-
dustry. The study would address many of the
challenges the weather community has grap-
pled with over the last decade, including the
appropriate balance and coordination of ef-
forts between the three sectors.
The current study proposal describes the
weather enterprise as having entered ‘‘a time
of rapid change,’’ with technological ad-
vances in artificial intelligence, computing,
and sensors bringing new challenges and op-
portunities. It also notes the community is
‘‘on the brink of unprecedented improve-
ments’’ in areas such as hyper-local, subsea-
sonal-to-seasonal, and impact-based weather
forecasting. Meanwhile, the growing and
evolving role of the private sector continues
to generate opportunities for exciting inno-
vations, but also could create a more com-
plicated landscape for the weather enter-
prise. A decadal survey would create a proc-
ess for regular assessment of the weather en-
terprise, ensuring the latest innovation,
technology, and information are used to de-
sign and operationalize weather data and
forecast systems.
The boundaries of the weather enterprise
operations have been driven by the science
into new forecast areas, and the weather,
water and climate enterprise needs to con-
sider doing what we have done in the area of
earth observations, and start planning over
ten year periods. Given the implications of
water and weather, I urge this Committee to
strongly consider supporting Amendment
#110 of H.R. 3055 for the weather community.
There is widespread recognition that with
limited resources our community must
present Congress and the Administration
with priorities. A decadal process will allow
us to prioritize what has to be done and do so
in recognition of the current fiscal realities.
Sincerely,
ANTONIO J. BUSALACCHI,
President, University Corporation
for Atmospheric Research.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN8.010 E25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E836 June 25, 2019
DARTMOUTH-HITCHCOCK AD-
VANCED RESPONSE TEAM
(DHART)
HON. ANN M. KUSTER
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the 25th anni-
versary of the Dartmouth Hitchcock Response
Team (DHART) based in Lebanon, New
Hampshire at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical
Center, the Granite State’s only Level 1 Trau-
ma Center.
Since DHART began operations 25 years
ago this month, the program has experienced
growth in both requests and completed flights,
providing a vital lifesaving service to our re-
gion. With operations 24 hours a day, seven
days a week, DHART transports adult, pedi-
atric and neonatal patients to appropriate
medical facilities throughout New England.
The DHART team consists of personnel from
both Dartmouth-Hitchcock and aviation profes-
sionals from Metro Aviation, providing ground
and air medical transportation services in
Northern New England. The dedicated DHART
team includes communication specialists, flight
nurses, flight paramedics, respiratory care
practitioners, emergency medical technicians,
as well as Metro aviation pilots and mechan-
ics.
On behalf of my constituents in New Hamp-
shire’s Second Congressional District, con-
gratulations to Dartmouth-Hitchcock Advanced
Response Team on its 25 years of oper-
ations—I wish the DHART team all the best in
the years to come.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DAVID LOEBSACK
OF IOWA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. LOEBSACK. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained because of weather. Had I
been present, I would have voted YEA on Roll
Call No. 399; NAY on Roll Call No. 400; NAY
on Roll Call No. 401; and NAY on Roll Call
No. 402.
f
IN HONOR OF NORTH AMERICAN
MATURE PUBLISHERS ASSOCIA-
TION, INC’S TWENTY-FIFTH AN-
NIVERSARY
HON. LANCE GOODEN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, I include in
the RECORD the following Proclamation.
Whereas, the North American Mature Pub-
lishers Association, Inc (NAMPA) is cele-
brating its 25th anniversary on October 13,
2019; and
Whereas, this prestigious association is
holding its annual international convention and
anniversary celebration in Memphis, Ten-
nessee, where publishers, editors, staff, and
guests of senior/boomer publications from
across the United States and Canada will
gather for educational and networking ses-
sions; and
Whereas, NAMPA is a non-profit association
of 96 member publications in 36 U.S. States,
and two Provinces in Canada with more than
4 million mature readers per month with its
international headquarters located in Shreve-
port, Louisiana; and
Whereas, NAMPA’s purpose and mission is
to help magazines and newspapers that focus
on the mature market to improve their quality
in terms of design and content, while also in-
creasing revenue; and
Whereas, I wish to officially recognize and
honor this outstanding association, its mem-
bers, officers, and its current Executive Direc-
tor, Gary L. Calligas, for their ongoing commit-
ment to education and service to mature read-
ers;
Now, therefore, I urge all citizens to support
this milestone anniversary.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE TRADI-
TION OF BREAKFAST ON THE
FARM IN MARINETTE COUNTY
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the tradition of Breakfast
on the Farm in Marinette County.
Breakfast on the Farm is an iconic Marinette
County tradition that provides the community
an opportunity to see first-hand how a dairy
farm operates and learn about the significant
role the dairy industry plays in Wisconsin’s
economy. Community members meet dairy
farmers, explore the barns and equipment,
and enjoy a delicious breakfast prepared on
the farm.
I am grateful to Van De Walle Farm for
hosting the 2019 Marinette County Breakfast
on the Farm. Van De Walle Farm is a
multigenerational dairy farm that milks 140
cows daily. In addition, the Van De Walles
raise all their young stock and farm about 450
of feed for their cattle. Because of their love
of animals and the dairy industry, the Van De
Walle Family maintains exceptional cow com-
fort and health to produce high quality milk.
The Van De Walle Family takes great pride in
their work and plans on teaching future gen-
erations about the industry.
Marinette County Dairy Promotions orga-
nizes Breakfast on the Farm by recruiting host
farms, sponsors and volunteers to support this
popular event. In addition, the organization
has a mission to promote agriculture and dairy
products at various community events
throughout the year across Marinette County.
Madam Speaker, l urge all members of this
body to join me in commending the efforts of
Breakfast on the Farm to educate the commu-
nity through this time-honored tradition. Thank
you to the Van De Walle Family, Marinette
County Dairy Promotions, and all the sponsors
and volunteers for their continued support of
Wisconsin’s dairy industry.
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AND RELATED AGENCIES APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. KENDRA S. HORN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 19, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 3055) making ap-
propriations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes:
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Madam Chair, I rise to speak on the Amend-
ment offered by Mr. BABIN.
I thank the gentleman for his interest in
commercial space and for the opportunity to
work with him on the Space and Aeronautics
Subcommittee of the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology, which I chair and on
which he serves as Ranking Member.
The gentleman’s amendment concerns the
organization of space activities within the De-
partment of Commerce and its National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
My concern with this amendment is that it
should be considered in the authorizing com-
mittee of jurisdiction through its work on com-
mercial space.
Reorganizing space activities in the Federal
government shouldn’t be something slipped
into an appropriations bill. Those decisions
should be evaluated and considered by the
Committee of jurisdiction—the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
There are multiple stakeholders involved in
commercial space activities, including Federal
government agencies, commercial providers,
users of commercial space activities, and part-
nerships among the various stakeholders.
Their views on the current state of commer-
cial space activities and regulations should in-
form policy going forward as should the per-
spectives of the Federal government agencies
involved working on commercial space-related
activities.
How Federal agencies are organized to
carry out their roles and responsibilities related
to commercial space is the work of the Space
and Aeronautics Subcommittee and I plan to
engage the Subcommittee on these and other
important commercial space matters.
The Members of the Subcommittee and the
full Science Committee expect to be involved
in matters regarding the future of space activi-
ties within the Federal government. Changing
important policy affecting many stakeholders
in a multi-agency spending bill may have unin-
tended consequences. Such changes should
be addressed through the committee of juris-
diction where they can be debated and re-
viewed in the light of day. I hope that this pro-
vision will be removed from the appropriations
bill before it goes to the President.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JN8.013 E25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E837
June 25, 2019
COMMENDING PALM BEACH COUN-
TY DISTRICT SCHOOLS ON BEST
PRACTICES FOR MUSIC EDU-
CATION
HON. BRIAN J. MAST
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Palm Beach County schools for pro-
moting music educational excellence in Flor-
ida. Palm Beach County received a 2019 Best
Communities for Music Education Award from
the National Association of Music Merchants
(NAMM).
This award celebrates school districts for
their commitment to music education and ef-
forts to promote music for all students as part
of a well-rounded education.
In achieving this national award, Palm
Beach County teachers and faculty have dem-
onstrated an exceptionally high commitment to
enriching students’ lives through music.
Madam Speaker, I hope these music pro-
grams will continue to expand and give even
more students the opportunity to thrive in our
community.
f
RECOGNIZING THE ACHIEVEMENTS
OF COMMANDER ZEITA MERCHANT
HON. DANNY K. DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise to honor and recognize the
achievements of Commander Zeita Merchant,
a proud native of Chicago, Illinois; Com-
mander Merchant has served this great nation
as an officer of the United States Coast Guard
for over 22 years;
Commander Merchant served as the Com-
manding Officer of U.S. Coast Guard Marine
Safety Unit Chicago, where she was respon-
sible for executing the Coast Guard’s Port
Safety and Security, Marine Environmental
Protection, and Commercial Vessel Safety
missions under the auspices of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security on the Southern
Lake Michigan shorelines of Illinois and Indi-
ana, as well as the Chicago Area Waterway
System and the Illinois River System; and;
Commander Merchant made history, in posi-
tion, as the unit’s first female Commanding Of-
ficer of her unit and the first African American
female to command a Marine Safety Unit in
Coast Guard history;
Commander Merchant’s visionary leadership
and operational expertise ensured the safety
and security of the Nation’s third largest met-
ropolitan area through maximizing federal,
state and local partnerships with her gal-
vanizing initiatives and influence, and over-
seeing prevention and marine environmental
responses, which sustained commerce in the
busiest port complex in the Great Lakes Re-
gion.
In addition, Commander Merchant showed
notable commitment to making an impact in
the Austin Community in which she was raised
as a board member for BUILD (Broader Urban
Involvement & Leadership Development) Chi-
cago, while also serving as a member of the
Executive Committee for the Chicago Federal
Executive Board, and Community Partner with
Chicago State University.
Finally, Commander Merchant served as an
instrumental champion for the Midwest Boys
and Girls Club, Chicago and Northern Illinois
American Red Cross, the Girl Scouts of Great-
er Chicago and Northwest Indiana, the Amer-
ican Legion Auxiliary Girls State program, and
many other non-profit organizations where the
lives of more than 4000 youth, veterans, and
community volunteers were positively im-
pacted.
Commander Merchant and her life experi-
ences are a testament to what young African
American women from Chicago can achieve.
The Chicagoland community has been truly
blessed to have such a brilliant mind and com-
mitted public servant and I wish her the best
in her future endeavors.
f
HONORING SUSAN LLOYD YOLEN
ON THE OCCASION OF HER RE-
TIREMENT
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker. It is with
great pleasure that I rise today to join family,
friends, and colleagues in extending my heart-
felt congratulations, deepest thanks, and sin-
cere appreciation to Susan Lloyd Yolen as she
marks her retirement after thirty-two years of
dedicated service to Planned Parenthood of
Southern New England.
Susan has dedicated her professional life to
ensuring that those served by PPSNE have
had access to the health care and services
that they need. As Vice President of Public
Policy & Advocacy, Susan has also been a
strong voice on both the local and national
stages for Planned Parenthood and the fami-
lies they serve.
Throughout her thirty-two-year career, she
spent countless hours leading the organiza-
tion’s efforts to fight for quality, affordable
healthcare, as well as reducing teen birth
rates and reducing racial and ethnic health
disparities by removing barriers to services
and information. Susan’s steadfast commit-
ment has earned her the respect and admira-
tion not only of her colleagues at PPSNE, but
that of the legislators and community activists
who had the opportunity to work with her.
I would be remiss if I did not take a moment
to extend a special note of thanks to Susan
for her friendship and support over the years.
She has been an invaluable resource to both
myself and my staff. Susan has only ever
been a phone call away and I, like so many
others, consider myself fortunate to call her
my friend. I am confident that I speak for ev-
eryone who has had the opportunity to work
with Susan over the years when I say her pas-
sion, compassion, tenacity, and commitment
will be deeply missed.
Planned Parenthood of Southern New Eng-
land stands as a model for affiliates across the
country and that is in large part because of
Susan Yolen. Advocate, mentor, and friend,
she has left an indelible mark on this out-
standing organization and a legacy that will
continue to inspire others to ensure that every-
one has access to the affordable, quality re-
productive health care they need and deserve.
I am honored to stand today to extend my
heartfelt thanks and congratulations to Susan,
for her outstanding leadership and good work,
as well as my very best wishes for many more
years of health and happiness as she enjoys
her retirement.
f
COMMENDING THE AUBURN HIGH
SCHOOL GIRLS SOFTBALL TEAM
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, it is my
pleasure to commend the Auburn High School
softball team, which captured the Virginia High
School League (VHSL) Class 1 state title on
June 14, 2019. The Eagles put on a dominant
performance, handily defeating a quality team
from Rappahannock County High School by a
score of 18 to 1.
This victory carries particular meaning, as it
is Auburn High School’s first Class 1 VHSL
girls softball state championship in its history.
Their championship caps a 25–3 season. I ap-
plaud the hard work and dedication of all
members of this year’s Auburn High School
girls softball team, and congratulate the ad-
ministrators, teachers, coaches, parents, stu-
dents, and fans. In particular, I would like to
recognize the contributions of the team’s sen-
iors, and their head coach David Hurd. Con-
gratulations on a great end to the season. It
is another trophy in Auburn’s impressive col-
lection of championships this year. In fact, it
came on the same day the Auburn baseball
team won their title. It is truly remarkable
when a high school wins two state champion-
ships not only in the same year, but on the
same day.
f
CONGRATULATING THE JUNIOR
RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING
CORPS (JROTC) ACADEMIC TEAM
OF WHITE STATION HIGH
SCHOOL
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate the Junior Reserve Officers
Training Corps (JROTC) academic team from
White Station High School in Memphis for win-
ning the JROTC Academic National Cham-
pionship on Sunday. The team, one of 32 in-
vited to compete for the national championship
at Catholic University of America in Wash-
ington, consists of rising senior Catherine Hu
and rising juniors Johnnie Walton, Michael
Golden and Diran Tan. Their teacher-coach is
Sergeant Major Karen Boldin.
The academic championship process began
with a written test in October with questions
from math, science, history and other aca-
demic areas. Previous levels of competition
narrowed the field to 1,200 teams, then just 32
who began their rounds on Friday. Michael
Golden had the final winning answer to a
question about a monument in a British city
and deserves a special shout-out.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JN8.018 E25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E838 June 25, 2019
JROTC is a great program that typically
leads to academic success after high school
and potentially to careers as officers in the
military services. The White Station team re-
turns to Memphis as National Champions and
I look forward to meeting with the team and
with students, faculty and staff at White Sta-
tion in the weeks ahead. They have made us
proud.
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AND RELATED AGENCIES APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. DEBRA A. HAALAND
OF NEW MEXICO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, June 20, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 3055) making ap-
propriations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes:
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Chair, I rise in support
of my two amendments to the Interior and En-
vironment Appropriations bill for FY20, which
were included in en bloc amendment No. 5.
I thank my friend Chairwoman BETTY
MCCOLLUM for supporting these amendments,
and for the work she and Ranking Member
JOYCE have done to increase funding for pro-
grams that are vitally important to Indian
Country. Despite their good efforts, due to
budget constraints, there is still work to be
done to meet the needs of our Tribal Nations.
The United States Constitution defines the
unique government-to-government relationship
between the federal government and Tribal
Nations. The federal trust responsibility origi-
nates from the days when Native Americans
were forced to surrender tribal land and suf-
fered loss of life and the removal/resettlement
of one-fifth of Tribes from their original home-
lands. The United States signed 375 treaties,
passed laws, and instituted policies that prom-
ised to safeguard Native Americans’ right to
self-governance and to enable delivery of es-
sential services in Indian Country.
One of these services is health care. During
the latter part of the nineteenth century, the
federal government expanded health care for
Native Americans due to overcrowding at
boarding schools and the spread of disease. It
was only in 1968, when Indian health care
lagged behind the rest of the country, was the
Indian Health Service (IHS) designated in an
effort to fulfill the trust responsibility. Over the
last two centuries, the failure of the federal
government to adequately address American
Indian/Alaskan Native (AI/AN) wellbeing led to
this population being ranked in the bottom of
health, education, and employment.
Congress has continued to inadequately
fund Indian Country at disproportionately lower
levels than funding for services for any other
population. IHS is currently only funded at 40
percent of the need, and the average per cap-
ita spending for an IHS patient is only about
$3,800 compared to the national average of
$9,523. During fiscal year 2019, IHS’ budg-
etary need was $30 billion, but the enacted
level only amounted to $5 billion, which is $25
billion less than the amount needed to prop-
erly administer health care in Indian Country
for 2.2 million AI/ANs across 573 federally rec-
ognized Tribes.
Urban Indian health care is an area of par-
ticular need. Approximately 70 percent of AI/
ANs live in urban areas, but they lack access
to adequate health care services because only
1 percent of the chronically underfunded IHS
budget has been allocated to urban Indian
health care. Currently urban Indian health is
estimated to only meet 22 percent of the need
of the roughly one million urban Al/ANs who
live in urban Indian health care services areas.
My amendment seeks to draw attention to
this area of serious need. While we are mak-
ing strides with this bill, an additional
$35,000,000 would help provide resources for
health care services needed by the urban In-
dian population.
Tribes are also in desperate need of re-
sources for tribal courts and law enforcement.
AI/AN suffer from one of the highest rates of
crime and victimization of any group of people
in the United States. Although overall funding
for public safety in Indian Country has in-
creased, it does not come close to meeting
the public safety needs in Indian Country or
the needs to police and protect Indian Coun-
try, especially related to tribal courts and law
enforcement. My amendment highlights that
an additional $63 million is needed for tribal
courts and $113 million for law enforcement to
give AI/ANs living on tribal lands access to
basic public safety services that are readily
available for other Americans living outside of
Indian Country.
I appreciate the good work done by Chair-
woman MCCOLLUM and Ranking Member
JOYCE to begin to address these pressing
needs in Indian Country, and I thank them for
their support of my amendments. I look for-
ward to continuing to work with them and
Chairwoman LOWEY and Ranking Member
GRANGER to ensure that the federal govern-
ment fulfills its trust obligation to Tribes and
that Tribes have the resources they need to
provide services and opportunity to their mem-
bers.
f
PRESIDENT GEORGE P. ‘‘BUD’’
PETERSON’S RETIREMENT
HON. JOHN LEWIS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. LEWIS. Madam Speaker, I rise to rec-
ognize Dr. George P. ‘‘Bud’’ Peterson, Ph.D.
on his retirement.
For the past 10 years, Dr. Peterson served
as the 11th president of the Georgia Institute
of Technology, a world-renowned higher edu-
cation institution that is located in my district.
Under Dr. Peterson’s leadership, the Institute
has consistently ranked among our nation’s
best institutions of higher education, and he
managed to exceed benchmarks outlined in
Georgia Tech’s strategic plan.
Madam Speaker, we are very fortunate to
have an institution like Georgia Tech edu-
cating our young people in Atlanta. President
Peterson worked tirelessly to open the doors
of opportunity to young people from every cor-
ner of Georgia. During his tenure, under-
graduate applications tripled, graduate applica-
tions doubled, and the student body increased
by 69 percent to more than 32,000 students.
In 2014, the Georgia Tech guaranteed admis-
sion and financial support to valedictorians
and salutatorians from Atlanta Public Schools.
In 2017, it extended these offerings statewide
through the Georgia Tech Scholars Program.
Access to a quality education changes the
very trajectory of these young people’s lives.
For visitors to Metro Atlanta, Dr. Peterson’s
impact is arguably most visible in Tech Square
in Midtown Atlanta. There is an important na-
tional conversation on how to create new liv-
able-wage, manufacturing jobs and bolster
United States’ global competitiveness. In our
region, Dr. Peterson ensured that Georgia
Tech became the regional center for this dis-
cussion. For these reasons, former Depart-
ment of Commerce Secretary Gary Locke ap-
pointed President Peterson to the National Ad-
visory Council on Innovation and Entrepre-
neurship, and President Barack Obama ap-
pointed him to the Advanced Manufacturing
Partnership (AMP) steering committee and its
2.0 successor.
President Peterson excels in connecting
young minds with great ideas to emerging in-
dustries and opportunity. Since 2013, 30 cor-
porations have set up innovation centers in
the area, engaging students’ creativity, grow-
ing our economy, and ensuring that Atlanta re-
main a center for talent and technology. In
fact, Madam Speaker, last week Dr. Peterson
welcomed my staff and me to Georgia Tech’s
new Coda building. This incredible facility,
along with the rest of Tech Square, shows
how the Institute will continue to shape Atlan-
ta’s future. Dr. Peterson was instrumental in
making this vision a reality.
Before coming to Georgia Tech, Dr. Peter-
son served as chancellor of the University of
Colorado at Boulder and provost at the
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in New York.
Born in San Francisco, California, Dr. Peter-
son grew up in Kansas and earned degrees
from Kansas State University and Texas A&M
University. Throughout his career, Dr. Peter-
son focused on promoting research and sci-
entific education and received national acco-
lades for his work. For these reasons, Presi-
dent George W. Bush appointed him to serve
on the National Science Board in 2008, and
President Obama re-appointed President Pe-
terson for a second six-year term in 2014.
Although Dr. Peterson is retiring this sum-
mer from the administration, he is staying in
the Georgia Tech family and returning to the
Institute’s faculty. On behalf of the people of
Atlanta, I thank President Peterson for his
years of dedicated leadership to our commu-
nity and to Georgia Tech. I wish him, his be-
loved wife Val, and their four children contin-
ued success and happiness in this next chap-
ter of their lives.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE SERVICE,
LEADERSHIP, AND LEGACY OF
CHIEF ERIC DUNNING
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Chief Eric Dunning of De
Pere, Wisconsin on celebrating his retirement
from the Ashwaubenon Department of Public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JN8.022 E25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E839
June 25, 2019
Safety. His leadership has been a benefit to
Wisconsin law enforcement and is an excel-
lent example of service to the community.
Chief Dunning is an exceptional public serv-
ant. A graduate of the FBI National Academy
class 237, he has dedicated his entire profes-
sional life to upholding the law. Starting as an
officer with the Ashwaubenon Department of
Public Safety in 1994, Chief Dunning rose the
ranks to lieutenant and then commander be-
fore he took the oath as chief in 2007.
Through all these positions, he exemplified a
steadfast commitment to providing superior
service and protection to the community.
Chief Dunning’s career is highlighted by
endless community outreach and vol-
unteerism. From the Santa Ride with the Fire
Truck to Shop with a Cop, his involvement has
gone above and beyond his required duties.
He served as president of the Brown County
Chiefs of Police Association and served on the
Board of Directors for the Wisconsin Chiefs of
Police Leadership Foundation. He will forever
be remembered as a positive role model and
friend to the community.
Chief Dunning served with diligence, self-
lessness, and bravery throughout his law en-
forcement career. The greater Green Bay
community is fortunate to have officers like
him who exemplify their oath to serve and pro-
tect. I am proud to represent men and women
with such commitment to their communities
and our country.
Madam Speaker, I urge all members of this
body to join me in thanking Chief Dunning for
his service and dedication to protecting our
community. I congratulate him on an excep-
tional 25-year career with the Ashwaubenon
Department of Public Safety and wish him well
as he marks the conclusion of an accom-
plished career.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JN8.025 E25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
REMARKS
D749
Tuesday, June 25, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S4475–S4523
Measures Introduced: Twenty-four bills and two
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
1950–1973, and S. Res. 263–264. Pages S4504–05
Measures Reported:
S. 1333, to amend the Improper Payments Elimi-
nation and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012, in-
cluding making changes to the Do Not Pay Initia-
tive, for improved detection, prevention, and recov-
ery of improper payments to deceased individuals. (S.
Rept. No. 116–49)
H.R. 1079, to require the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget to issue guidance on
electronic consent forms. (S. Rept. No. 116–50)
Page S4504
Measures Considered:
National Defense Authorization Act—Agree-
ment: Senate continued consideration of S. 1790, to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe military per-
sonnel strengths for such fiscal year, taking action on
the following amendments and motions proposed
thereto: Pages S4477–87, S4488–S4501
Pending:
McConnell (for Inhofe) Modified Amendment No.
764, in the nature of a substitute. Page S4477
McConnell (for Romney) Amendment No. 861 (to
Amendment No. 764), to provide that funds author-
ized by the Act are available for the defense of the
Armed Forces and United States citizens against at-
tack by foreign hostile forces. Page S4477
McConnell Amendment No. 862 (to Amendment
No. 861), to change the enactment date. Page S4477
McConnell Amendment No. 863 (to the language
proposed to be stricken by Amendment No. 764), to
change the enactment date. Page S4477
McConnell Amendment No. 864 (to Amendment
No. 863), of a perfecting nature. Page S4477
McConnell motion to recommit the bill to the
Committee on Armed Services, with instructions,
McConnell Amendment No. 865, to change the en-
actment date. Page S4477
McConnell Amendment No. 866 (to (the instruc-
tions) Amendment No. 865), of a perfecting nature.
Page S4477
McConnell Amendment No. 867 (to Amendment
No. 866), of a perfecting nature. Page S4477
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the bill, at ap-
proximately 10 a.m., on Wednesday, June 26, 2019;
and that notwithstanding the provisions of Rule
XXII, the motions to invoke cloture filed on Mon-
day, June 24, 2019, ripen at 12 noon, on Wednes-
day, June 26, 2019. Page S4477
Messages from the House: Page S4503
Measures Referred: Page S4503
Executive Communications: Pages S4503–04
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S4504
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S4505–07
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S4507–10
Additional Statements: Pages S4501–03
Amendments Submitted: Pages S4511–20
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S4520
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:04 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Wednesday,
June 26, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S4520.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
STATE OF THE DERIVATIVES MARKET
AND CFTC REAUTHORIZATION
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine the state of
the derivatives market and perspectives for Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission reauthorization,
after receiving testimony from Thomas W. Sexton,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D750 June 25, 2019
National Futures Association, Chicago, Illinois; Wal-
ter L. Lukken, Futures Industry Association, and
Dennis M. Kelleher, Better Markets, Inc., both of
Washington, D.C.; and Joe Barker, CHS Hedging,
St. Paul, Minnesota.
FANNIE MAE AND FREDDIE MAC
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine whether
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should be designated
as systematically important financial institutions,
after receiving testimony from Alex J. Pollock, R
Street Institute, and Douglas Holtz-Eakin, American
Action Forum, both of Washington, D.C.; and Susan
M. Wachter, The Wharton School at the University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
PERSUASIVE TECHNOLOGY ON INTERNET
PLATFORMS
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Communications, Technology, Innova-
tion, and the Internet concluded a hearing to exam-
ine the use of persuasive technology on internet plat-
forms, focusing on optimizing for engagement, after
receiving testimony from Tristan Harris, Center for
Humane Technology, San Francisco, California;
Maggie Stanphill, Google, Mountain View, Cali-
fornia; Stephen Wolfram, Wolfram Research, Inc.,
Champaign, Illinois; and Rashida Richardson, New
York University AI Now Institute, New York, New
York.
TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS IN
TRANSPORTATION
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Transportation and Safety concluded a
hearing to examine technological innovations in
transportation, after receiving testimony from Ann
Schlenker, Director, Center for Transportation Re-
search, Argonne National Laboratory, Department of
Energy; Steve Ingracia, Nebraska Department of
Transportation Deputy Director, Lincoln; Shailen P.
Bhatt, Intelligent Transportation Society of America,
Washington, D.C.; Patrick Duffy, Blockchain in
Transport Alliance, Chattanooga, Tennessee; and
Brent Hutto, Truckstop.com, Plymouth, Idaho.
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the implementation
of the Land and Water Conservation Fund program,
after receiving testimony from Susan Combs, Assist-
ant Secretary of the Interior for Policy, Management
and Budget; Chris French, Acting Deputy Chief,
National Forest System, Forest Service, Department
of Agriculture; Lauren S. Imgrund, National Associa-
tion of State Outdoor Recreation Liaison Officers,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Collin O’Mara, National
Wildlife Federation, Reston, Virginia; and Brian
Yablonski, Property and Environment Research Cen-
ter, Bozeman, Montana.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee ordered fa-
vorably reported the following business items:
S. 727, to combat international extremism by ad-
dressing global fragility and violence and stabilizing
conflict-affected areas, with an amendment;
S. 1102, to promote security and energy partner-
ships in the Eastern Mediterranean, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 1309, to identify and combat corruption in
countries, to establish a tiered system of countries
with respect to levels of corruption by their govern-
ments and their efforts to combat such corruption,
and to assess United States assistance to designated
countries in order to advance anti-corruption efforts
in those countries and better serve United States tax-
payers, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 1945, to amend section 36 of the Arms Export
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776) to preserve congres-
sional review and oversight of foreign arms sales;
S. Res. 34, expressing the sense of the Senate that
the Governments of Burma and Bangladesh ensure
the safe, dignified, voluntary, and sustainable return
of the Rohingya refugees who have been displaced
by the campaign of ethnic cleansing conducted by
the Burmese military and to immediately release un-
justly imprisoned journalists, Wa Lone and Kyaw
Soe Oo, with an amendment;
S. Res. 198, condemning Brunei’s dramatic
human rights backsliding, with an amendment;
S. Res. 206, marking the 70th anniversary of the
four Geneva Conventions of 1949, expressing con-
cern about significant violations of international hu-
manitarian law on contemporary battlefields, and en-
couraging United States leadership in ensuring
greater respect for international humanitarian law in
current conflicts, particularly with its security part-
ners, with an amendment;
S. Con. Res. 10, recognizing that Chinese tele-
communications companies such as Huawei and ZTE
pose serious threats to the national security of the
United States and its allies, with an amendment;
The Protocol Amending the Convention between
the United States of America and the Kingdom of
Spain for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes
on Income and its Protocol, signed at Madrid on
February 22, 1990 (Treaty Doc. 113–4);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D751
June 25, 2019
Protocol Amending the Convention between the
United States of America and the Swiss Confed-
eration for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with
Respect to Taxes on Income, signed at Washington
on October 2, 1996, signed on September 23, 2009,
at Washington, as corrected by an exchange of notes
effected November 16, 2010 and a related agreement
effected by an exchange of notes on September 23,
2009 (Treaty Doc. 112–1);
The Protocol Amending the Convention between
the Government of the United States of America and
the Government of Japan for the Avoidance of Dou-
ble Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion
with respect to Taxes on Income and a related agree-
ment entered into by an exchange of notes (together
the ‘‘proposed Protocol’’), both signed on January
24, 2013, at Washington, together with correcting
notes exchanged March 9 and March 29, 2013 (Trea-
ty Doc. 114–1);
Protocol Amending the Convention between the
Government of the United States of America and the
Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for
the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Preven-
tion of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on In-
come and Capital, signed on May 20, 2009, at Lux-
embourg (the ‘‘proposed Protocol’’) and a related
agreement effected by the exchange of notes also
signed on May 20, 2009 (Treaty Doc. 111–8); and
The nomination of Eliot Pedrosa, of Florida, to be
United States Executive Director of the Inter-Amer-
ican Development Bank.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 37 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 3456–3492; and 2 resolutions, H.
Res. 461 and 463 were introduced. Pages H5165–67
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H5168–69
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 1199, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to conduct a study regarding the accessibility of
websites of the Department of Veterans Affairs to in-
dividuals with disabilities (H. Rept. 116–127); and
H. Res. 462, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3401) making emergency supplemental
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2019, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–128). Pages H5164–65
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Cuellar to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H5079
Recess: The House recessed at 11:23 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H5088
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Dr. James Merritt, Cross Pointe
Church, Duluth, Georgia. Page H5088
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H5089, H5163
Japan-United States Friendship Commission—
Appointment: The Chair announced the Speaker’s
appointment of the following Member on the part of
the House to the Japan-United States Friendship
Commission: Representative Hill (AR). Page H5090
Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Cen-
ter for the Performing Arts—Appointment: The
Chair announced the Speaker’s appointment of the
following Member on the part of the House to the
Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts: Representative Smith (MO).
Page H5090
House Democracy Partnership—Appointment:
Read a letter from Representative McCarthy, Minor-
ity Leader, in which he appointed the following
Members to the House Democracy Partnership: Rep-
resentatives Fortenberry, Conaway, Smith (NE),
Womack, Flores, Walorski, Rice (SC), and Mullin.
Page H5090
Recess: The House recessed at 1:23 p.m. and recon-
vened at 1:30 p.m. Page H5099
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Act, 2020: The House passed
H.R. 3055, making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2020, by a yea-and-nay vote of 227 yeas to 194
nays, Roll No. 408. Consideration began on
Wednesday, June 19th. Pages H5100–04
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D752 June 25, 2019
Rejected the Hurd (TX) motion to recommit the
bill to the Committee on Appropriations with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
201 ayes to 220 noes, Roll No. 407. Pages H5102–04
Agreed to:
Jayapal amendment (No. 268 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–119) that was debated on June 24th
that reallocates $1,000,000 to fund transitional
housing and homelessness services (by a recorded
vote of 294 ayes to 127 noes, Roll No. 406).
Pages H5101–02
Rejected:
Banks amendment (No. 251 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–119) that was debated on June 24th
that sought to reduce amounts made available in Di-
vision E, other than amounts made available to the
Department of Defense, by 14 percent (by a recorded
vote of 131 ayes to 287 noes, Roll No. 405).
Pages H5100–01
Agreed that in the engrossment of the bill, the
Clerk be authorized to make technical corrections
and conforming changes to reflect the actions of the
House. Page H5104
H. Res. 445, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 3055) and relating to consideration
of the bill (H.R. 2740) was agreed to Wednesday,
June 19th.
Financial Services and General Government Ap-
propriations Act, 2020: The House began consider-
ation of H.R. 3351, making appropriations for finan-
cial services and general government for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020. Consideration is
expected to resume tomorrow, June 26th.
Pages H5104–38, H5159–61
Agreed to:
Pocan amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–126) that prohibits the Federal Commu-
nications Commission from finalizing the proposed
rule ‘‘Universal Service Contribution Methodology,’’
which would impose a cap on the Universal Service
Fund and allow the sub-caps of USF programs to be
combined; Pages H5130–31
Velázquez amendment (No. 6 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–126) that increases funding for Small
Business Administration, Entrepreneurial Develop-
ment Programs by $1 million, with the increase in-
tended to specifically support Growth Accelerators;
Page H5134
Hill (AR) amendment (No. 7 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–126) that increases and decreases
funding in the Small Business Administration’s En-
trepreneurial Development Programs by $5,000,000
to support funding for the Small Business Adminis-
tration’s Regional Innovation Cluster Program;
Pages H5134–35
Lee (CA) amendment (No. 8 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–126) that increases funding by $1
million to the Taxpayer Advocate Service for the
purpose of assisting the parents of a deceased child,
when that child’s information has been stolen and
used on personal income taxes filed with the IRS,
when the parent or guardian of record must report
the identity theft of their deceased child’s informa-
tion; Page H5135
Courtney amendment (No. 9 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–126) that prohibits funds by the GSA
to market or sell the National Bio and Agro-defense
Facility at Plum Island, New York; Pages H5135–36
Pascrell amendment (No. 10 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–126) that increases and decreases
funding by $1,000,000 for the United States Postal
Service (USPS) to support USPS expanding its non-
bank financial services; and Pages H5136–38
Norton amendment (No. 4 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–126) that prohibits funds made avail-
able by this Act from being used to relocate the Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture or the Eco-
nomic Research Service outside of the National Cap-
ital Region (by a recorded vote of 226 ayes to 198
noes, Roll No. 412). Pages H5132–33, H5160–61
Rejected:
Huizenga amendment (No. 5 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–126) that sought to prohibit the use
of funds to implement, administer, or enforce a SEC
rule pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank
Act relating to conflict minerals; and Pages H5133–34
King (IA) amendment (No. 3 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–126) that sought to strike the sec-
tion 126 of the underlying bill which prohibits the
use of funds from the Department of the Treasury’s
Forfeiture Fund to plan, design, construct or carry
out a project to construct a southern Border Wall or
barrier along the southern border of the U.S. (by a
recorded vote of 191 ayes to 226 noes, Roll No.
411). Pages H5131–32, H5159–60
H. Res. 460, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 2722) and (H.R. 3351) was agreed
to by a yea-and-nay vote of 225 yeas to 190 nays,
Roll No. 404, after the previous question was or-
dered by a yea-and-nay vote of 228 yeas to 188 nays,
Roll No. 403. Pages H5091–99, H5099–H5100
Recess: The House recessed at 4:44 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:01 p.m. Page H5138
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for
Humanitarian Assistance and Security at the
Southern Border Act, 2019: The House passed
H.R. 3401, making emergency supplemental appro-
priations for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, by a yea-and-nay vote of 230 yeas to 195
nays, Roll No. 414. Pages H5147–59, H5161–63
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D753
June 25, 2019
Rejected the Rutherford motion to recommit the
bill to the Committee on Appropriations with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
205 ayes to 218 noes, Roll No. 413. Pages H5161–62
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendment printed in
H. Rept. 116–128 shall be considered as adopted.
Page H5147
H. Res. 462, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 3401) was agreed to by a yea-and-
nay vote of 225 yeas to 189 nays, Roll No. 410,
after the previous question was ordered by a yea-and-
nay vote of 226 yeas to 188 nays, Roll No. 409.
Pages H5139–47
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H5090.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Six yea-and-nay votes and
six recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H5099–H5100,
H5100, H5101, H5101–02, H5103–04, H5104,
H5146, H5146–47, H5159–60, H5160–61,
H5161–62, and H5162–63. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 10:03 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MANAGING FOR SOIL HEALTH: SECURING
THE CONSERVATION AND ECONOMIC
BENEFITS OF HEALTHY SOILS
Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Conserva-
tion and Forestry held a hearing entitled ‘‘Managing
for Soil Health: Securing the Conservation and Eco-
nomic Benefits of Healthy Soils’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
DO NO HARM: EXAMINING THE
MISAPPLICATION OF THE RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM RESTORATION ACT
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Do No Harm: Examining
the Misapplication of the Religious Freedom Res-
toration Act’’. Testimony was heard from Represent-
atives Johnson of Louisiana and Kennedy; and public
witnesses.
REAUTHORIZING VITAL HEALTH
PROGRAMS FOR AMERICAN FAMILIES
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘Reauthorizing Vital
Health Programs for American Families’’. Testimony
was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology held a markup on
H.R. 3375, the ‘‘Stopping Bad Robocalls Act’’. H.R.
3375 was forwarded to the full Committee, as
amended.
DIVERSE ASSET MANAGERS: CHALLENGES,
SOLUTIONS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR
INCLUSION
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on Di-
versity held a hearing entitled ‘‘Diverse Asset Man-
agers: Challenges, Solutions and Opportunities for
Inclusion’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
OVERSEEING THE FINTECH REVOLUTION:
DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL
PERSPECTIVES ON FINTECH REGULATION
Committee on Financial Services: Task Force on Finan-
cial Technology held a hearing entitled ‘‘Overseeing
the Fintech Revolution: Domestic and International
Perspectives on Fintech Regulation’’. Testimony was
heard from Beth Knickerbocker, Chief Innovation
Officer, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
Department of the Treasury; Valerie Szczepanik, As-
sociate Director of the Division of Corporation Fi-
nance, and Senior Advisor for Digital Assets and In-
novation, Securities and Exchange Commission; and
public witnesses.
THE U.S. RESPONSE TO THE POLITICAL
CRISIS IN SUDAN
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on Africa,
Global Health, Global Human Rights, and Inter-
national Organizations held a hearing entitled ‘‘The
U.S. Response to the Political Crisis in Sudan’’. Tes-
timony was heard from Makila James, Deputy As-
sistant Secretary for East Africa and the Sudans, Bu-
reau of African Affairs, Department of State; and
Ramsey Day, Senior Deputy Assistant Administrator,
Bureau for Africa, U.S. Agency for International De-
velopment.
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND
COUNTERTERRORISM: POSSIBILITIES AND
LIMITATIONS
Committee on Homeland Security: Subcommittee on In-
telligence and Counterterrorism held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Artificial Intelligence and Counterterrorism:
Possibilities and Limitations’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D754 June 25, 2019
CYBERSECURITY CHALLENGES FOR STATE
AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS: ASSESSING
HOW THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CAN
HELP
Committee on Homeland Security: Subcommittee on
Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Innova-
tion held a hearing entitled ‘‘Cybersecurity Chal-
lenges for State and Local Governments: Assessing
How the Federal Government Can Help’’. Testimony
was heard from Keisha Lance Bottoms, Mayor, City
of Atlanta; and public witnesses.
OVERSIGHT OF BANKRUPTCY LAW AND
LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Anti-
trust, Commercial, and Administrative Law held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of Bankruptcy Law and
Legislative Proposals’’. Testimony was heard from
Senator Durbin, Chairman Velázquez, and Rep-
resentatives Cline and Delgado; and public witnesses.
CONTINUING CHALLENGES TO THE
VOTING RIGHTS ACT SINCE SHELBY
COUNTY V. HOLDER
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on the Con-
stitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Continuing Challenges to the Vot-
ing Rights Act Since Shelby County v. Holder’’.
Testimony was heard from Kyle Hawkins, Solicitor
General of Texas, Office of the Attorney General,
Texas; and public witnesses.
URANIUM MINING: CONTAMINATION
AND CRITICALITY
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on En-
ergy and Mineral Resources held a hearing entitled
‘‘Uranium Mining: Contamination and Criticality’’.
Testimony was heard from Steve Fortier, Director,
National Minerals Information Center, U.S. Geologi-
cal Survey; and public witnesses.
CHRONIC WASTING DISEASE: THE
THREATS TO WILDLIFE, PUBLIC LANDS,
HUNTING, AND HEALTH
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Chronic Wasting Disease: The Threats to Wildlife,
Public Lands, Hunting, and Health’’. Testimony was
heard from Jason Sumners, Resource Science Division
Chief, Missouri Department of Conservation; Carter
Smith, Executive Director, Texas Parks and Wildlife
Department; and public witnesses.
IDENTIFYING, RESOLVING, AND
PREVENTING VULNERABILITIES IN TSA’S
SECURITY OPERATIONS
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Identifying, Resolving, and
Preventing Vulnerabilities in TSA’s Security Oper-
ations’’. Testimony was heard from David P.
Pekoske, Administrator, Transportation Security Ad-
ministration, Department of Homeland Security;
Charles M. Johnson, Jr., Managing Director, Home-
land Security and Justice Issues, Government Ac-
countability Office; and Donald Bumgardner, Dep-
uty Assistant Inspector General, Office of Inspector
General, Department of Homeland Security.
RECOVERY, RESILIENCY AND READINESS—
CONTENDING WITH NATURAL DISASTERS
IN THE WAKE OF CLIMATE CHANGE
(CLIMATE CHANGE, PART III)
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Environment held a hearing entitled ‘‘Recovery, Re-
siliency and Readiness—Contending with Natural
Disasters in the Wake of Climate Change (Climate
Change, Part III)’’. Testimony was heard from Ste-
phen Costello, Chief Recovery Officer, Houston,
Texas; Christopher Currie, Director, Emergency
Management, Disaster Recovery and DHS Manage-
ment Issues, Government Accountability Office;
Mark Ghilarducci, Director, California Governor’s
Office of Emergency Services, California; Omar
Marrero, Executive Director, Central Office of Re-
covery and Reconstruction of Puerto Rico; Adrienne
Williams-Octablien, Director, Office of Disaster Re-
covery, U.S. Virgin Islands Public Finance Author-
ity; and public witnesses.
EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL
APPROPRIATIONS FOR HUMANITARIAN
ASSISTANCE AND SECURITY AT THE
SOUTHERN BORDER ACT
Committee on Rules: Full Committee concluded a hear-
ing on H.R. 3401, the ‘‘Emergency Supplemental
Appropriations for Humanitarian Assistance and Se-
curity at the Southern Border Act, 2019’’. The Com-
mittee granted, by record vote of 8–4, a closed rule
providing for consideration of H.R. 3401, the
‘‘Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Hu-
manitarian Assistance and Security at the Southern
Border Act, 2019’’. The rule provides one hour of
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on
Appropriations. The rule waives all points of order
against consideration of the bill. The rule provides
that the amendment printed in the Rules Committee
report shall be considered as adopted. The rule pro-
vides that the bill, as amended, shall be considered
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D755
June 25, 2019
as read. The rule waives all points of order against
provisions in the bill, as amended. The rule provides
that clause 2(e) of Rule XXI shall not apply during
consideration of the bill. Finally, the rule provides
one motion to recommit with or without instruc-
tions.
OVERSIGHT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY’S RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
ENTERPRISE
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the De-
partment of Energy’s Research and Development En-
terprise’’. Testimony was heard from Rick Perry,
Secretary, Department of Energy.
ELECTION SECURITY: VOTING
TECHNOLOGY VULNERABILITIES
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Investigations and Oversight; and
Subcommittee on Research and Technology held a
joint hearing entitled ‘‘Election Security: Voting
Technology Vulnerabilities’’. Testimony was heard
from Charles H. Romine, Director, Information
Technology Laboratory, National Institute of Stand-
ards and Technology; Neal Kelley, Registrar of Vot-
ers, Orange County, California; Paul Ziriax, Sec-
retary, Oklahoma State Election Board; and public
witnesses.
BROADBAND MAPPING: SMALL CARRIER
PERSPECTIVES ON A PATH FORWARD
Committee on Small Business: Subcommittee on Con-
tracting and Infrastructure held a hearing entitled
‘‘Broadband Mapping: Small Carrier Perspectives on
a Path Forward’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
PROTECTING AND RESTORING AMERICA’S
ICONIC WATERS
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Water Resources and Environment
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting and Restoring
America’s Iconic Waters’’. Testimony was heard from
Preston D. Cole, Secretary, Wisconsin Department of
Natural Resources; Dave Pine, Supervisor, District 1,
San Mateo County Board of Supervisors, California;
and public witnesses.
LEARNING FROM WHISTLEBLOWERS AT
THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Subcommittee on Over-
sight and Investigations began a hearing entitled
‘‘Learning from Whistleblowers at the Department
of Veterans Affairs’’. Testimony was heard from
Katherine Mitchell, Department of Veterans Affairs;
Jeff Dettbarn, Department of Veterans Affairs; and
public witnesses.
HOW RECENT LIMITATIONS TO THE SALT
DEDUCTION HARM COMMUNITIES,
SCHOOLS, FIRST RESPONDERS, AND
HOUSING VALUES
Committee on Ways and Means: Subcommittee on Se-
lect Revenue Measures held a hearing entitled ‘‘How
Recent Limitations to the SALT Deduction Harm
Communities, Schools, First Responders, and Hous-
ing Values’’. Testimony was heard from Bob De
Natale, Mayor, Bayville, New York; Christian
Yancik Leinbach, Commissioner, Berks County,
Pennsylvania; Paul Imhoff, Superintendent, Upper
Arlington School District, Columbus, Ohio; David
Tarter, Mayor, Falls Church, Virginia; and public
witnesses.
MEXICO’S LABOR REFORM:
OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES FOR
AN IMPROVED NAFTA
Committee on Ways and Means: Subcommittee on
Trade held a hearing entitled ‘‘Mexico’s Labor Re-
form: Opportunities and Challenges for an Improved
NAFTA’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
MEMBERS’ DAY HEARING FOCUSED ON
THE RECENT CHANGES MADE TO THE
FEDERAL TAX TREATMENT OF STATE AND
LOCAL TAXES
Committee on Ways and Means: Subcommittee on Se-
lect Revenue Measures held a hearing entitled
‘‘Members’ Day Hearing Focused on the Recent
Changes Made to the Federal Tax Treatment of State
and Local Taxes’’. Testimony was heard from Chair-
man Waters, and Representatives Malinowski, Phil-
lips, Kim, Casten of Illinois, Underwood,
Gottheimer, Porter, Himes, Speier, Payne, Morelle,
Zeldin, Eshoo, Norcross, Sherrill, and Rose of New
York.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
JUNE 26, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on the Budget: to hold hearings to examine
fixing a broken budget and spending process, focusing on
securing the nation’s fiscal future, 2:30 p.m., SD–608.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D756 June 25, 2019
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine Amtrak, focusing on next steps
for passenger rail, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: business
meeting to consider the nominations of Daniel Habib
Jorjani, of Kentucky, to be Solicitor, and Mark Lee
Greenblatt, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, both of
the Department of the Interior, Time to be announced,
S–216, Capitol.
Subcommittee on Water and Power, to hold hearings
to examine S. 325, to require the Secretary of the Interior
to convey the Garrison Diversion Unit Project Oakes Test
Area in Dickey County, North Dakota, to the Dickey-
Sargent Irrigation District, S. 860, to amend the Omni-
bus Public Land Management Act of 2009 to modify the
terms of the Jackson Gulch rehabilitation project in Colo-
rado, S. 990, to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to
participate in the implementation of the Platte River Re-
covery Implementation Program First Increment Exten-
sion for threatened and endangered species in the Central
and Lower Platte River Basin, S. 1305, to establish a
Federal cost share percentage for the Milk River Project
in the State of Montana, S. 1758, to extend a repayment
contract relating to the Purgatoire River Water Conser-
vancy District and to authorize the District to develop an
excess capacity contract to offset repayment costs, and S.
1882, to make available the continued use of Pick-Sloan
Missouri Basin Program project use power by the Kinsey
Irrigation Company and the Sidney Water Users Irriga-
tion District, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: busi-
ness meeting to consider S. 1199, to amend the Public
Health Service Act to revise and extend the poison center
network program, S. 1173, to amend the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize the Emergency Medical Serv-
ices for Children program, S. 1895, to lower health care
costs, and pending nominations, 10:30 a.m., SD–124.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine unprecedented migration at
the United States southern border, focusing on the ex-
ploitation of migrants through smuggling, trafficking,
and involuntary servitude, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Douglas Russell Cole, and Matthew
Walden McFarland, both to be a United States District
Judge for the Southern District of Ohio, Robert Anthony
Molloy, to be Judge for the District Court of the Virgin
Islands, and Kea Whetzal Riggs, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the District of New Mexico, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: to hold
hearings to examine reauthorization of the Small Business
Administration’s Small Business Investment Company
program, 2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on Commodity
Exchanges, Energy, and Credit, hearing entitled ‘‘Brexit
and Other International Developments Affecting U.S. De-
rivatives Markets’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Building A More Dynamic Economy: The Benefits
of Immigration’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Standing with Public Servants: Protecting the
Right to Organize’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on En-
ergy, markup on H.R. 3432, the ‘‘Safer Pipelines Act of
2019’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Task Force on Artificial
Intelligence, hearing entitled ‘‘Perspectives on Artificial
Intelligence: Where We Are and the Next Frontier in Fi-
nancial Services’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Full Committee, markup on H.R. 3407, the ‘‘United
States Export Finance Agency Act of 2019’’; and H.R.
1690, the ‘‘Safe Housing for Families Act of 2019’’,
12:30 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 3352, the ‘‘Department of State Authorization
Act of 2019’’; H. Res. 220, recognizing the interdepend-
ence of diplomacy, development, and defense as critical to
effective national security; H. Res. 221, reaffirming the
importance of upholding democracy, human rights, and
the rule of law in United States foreign policy; H. Res.
222, emphasizing the importance of alliances and partner-
ships; H. Res. 358, calling on the Government of Cam-
eroon and armed groups to respect the human rights of
all Cameroonian citizens, to end all violence, and to pur-
sue a broad-based dialogue without preconditions to re-
solve the conflict in the Northwest and Southwest re-
gions; H.R. 2037, the ‘‘Saudi Arabia Human Rights and
Accountability Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3206, to impose sanc-
tions with respect to the provision of certain vessels for
the construction of Russian energy export pipelines; and
H.R. 3460, the ‘‘End Neglected Tropical Diseases Act’’,
10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy, and the En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘Transatlantic Policy Impacts
of the U.S.–EU Trade Conflict’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Examining Social Media Companies’ Efforts to
Counter Online Terror Content and Misinformation’’, 10
a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight of the U.S. Copyright Office’’, 10 a.m.,
2141 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Immigration and Citizenship, mark-
up on Request for a Department of Homeland Security
Departmental Report on the Beneficiary of H.R. 2737, 3
p.m., 2237 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water,
Oceans, and Wildlife, hearing on H.R. 644, the ‘‘Navajo
Utah Water Rights Settlement Act’’; H.R. 2459, the
‘‘Hualapai Tribe Water Rights Settlement Act’’; and
H.R. 3292, the ‘‘Aamodt Litigation Settlement Comple-
tion Act of 2019’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Full Committee, markup on H.R. 823, the ‘‘Colorado
Outdoor Recreation and Economy Act’’; and H.R. 1225,
the ‘‘Restore Our Parks and Public Lands Act’’, 10 a.m.,
1324 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D757
June 25, 2019
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Violations of the Hatch Act Under the
Trump Administration’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Full Committee, business meeting on A Resolution of-
fered by Chairman Elijah E. Cummings authorizing the
Chairman to issue a subpoena to Ms. Kellyanne Conway,
Counselor to the President, for testimony in connection
with her failure to comply with the Hatch Act and ethics
laws, 10:20 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Government Operations, hearing en-
titled ‘‘FITARA 8.0’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on National Security, hearing entitled
‘‘U.S. Biodefense, Preparedness, and Implications of Anti-
microbial Resistance for National Security’’, 2 p.m., 2247
Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Artificial Intelligence: Societal
and Ethical Implications’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘NASA’s Aeronautics Mission: Enabling the Trans-
formation of Aviation’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Crushed by Confessions of Judgement: The
Small Business Story’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 2548, the ‘‘Hazard Eligibility
and Local Projects Act’’; H.R. 2726, the ‘‘Banning Smok-
ing on Amtrak Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3362, the ‘‘Small
Airport Mothers’ Rooms Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 3409,
the ‘‘Coast Guard Authorization of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2167
Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Health,
hearing entitled ‘‘Beyond the Million Veterans Program:
Barriers to Precision Medicine’’, 2 p.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 3417, the ‘‘The Beneficiary Education Tools,
Telehealth, and Extenders Reauthorization Act of 2019’’;
legislation on the HEARTS and Rural Relief Act; legisla-
tion amending title XVIII of the Social Security Act to
remove cost-sharing responsibilities for chronic care man-
agement services under the Medicare program; H.R.
3414, ‘‘The Opioid Workforce Act of 2019’’; and legisla-
tion on amending the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and
title XI of the Social Security Act to extend appropria-
tions and transfers to the Patient-Centered Outcomes Re-
search Trust Fund and to extend certain health insurance
fees for such transfers, and for other purposes, 10 a.m.,
1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D758 June 25, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Wednesday, June 26
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of S. 1790, National Defense Authorization Act,
and vote on the motion to invoke cloture on McConnell
(for Inhofe) Modified Amendment No. 764, to the bill,
at 12 noon.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, June 26
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Continue consideration of
H.R. 3351—Financial Services and General Government
Appropriations Act, 2020.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E831
Clarke, Yvette D., N.Y., E834
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E837
Davis, Danny K., Ill., E837
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E837
Gallagher, Mike, Wisc., E836, E838
Gooden, Lance, Tex., E836
Graves, Sam, Mo., E831, E832
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E834, E837
Haaland, Debra A., N.M., E838
Horn, Kendra S., Okla., E836
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E832, E835
Kuster, Ann M., N.H., E836
Lesko, Debbie, Ariz., E831
Levin, Mike, Calif., E832
Lewis, John, Ga., E838
Loebsack, David, Iowa, E836
Mast, Brian J., Fla., E837
McCollum, Betty, Minn., E833
Nadler, Jerrold, N.Y., E831
Posey, Bill, Fla., E834
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E832
Thompson, Bennie G., Miss., E834
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E833
Velázquez, Nydia M., N.Y., E834
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:30 Jun 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D25JN9.REC D25JNPT1
SSpencer
on
DSK3G9T082PROD
with
DIGEST
