Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2373
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2019 No. 40
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mrs. BUSTOS).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
March 6, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable CHERI
BUSTOS to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
IMPEACHMENT IS NOT DEAD
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, and still I rise, with love of country
in my heart.
And still I rise, as I did some 659 days
ago, more than 21 months, when I first
stood on the floor of the House of Rep-
resentatives and called for the im-
peachment of the President. In so
doing, I had to fend off the multitudes
who wanted to know what crime the
President had committed, what law did
he break.
We had to fight that fight, and we
won, because it is now generally per-
ceived and believed that the President
does not have to commit a crime to be
impeached.
In fact, Article II, Section 4 of the
Constitution of the United States of
America addresses that question when
it deals with high crimes and mis-
demeanors as misdemeanors or mis-
deeds, pursuant to the understanding
that we have of the Constitution of the
United States of America.
And still I rise now, understanding
that we have had to fend off those who
have said: You have to wait for the
Mueller report. You have to wait. Why
not wait?
Here is why you don’t have to wait:
Because the Mueller report is dealing
with violations of the law. Misdeeds
don’t necessarily require a violation of
the law.
If you are corrupting society, if you
are creating harm to society, if you are
causing things to happen in society
that are unacceptable to the people in
the United States of America, an unfit
President can be impeached for those
misdeeds that corrupt and harm soci-
ety.
We are winning that fight. This fight
is one that is easily won because, as we
proceed, it is going to become intu-
itively obvious that these misdeeds are
the problems, and the misdeeds are cre-
ating the concerns in society.
It is my belief that we have a duty, a
responsibility, and an obligation under
the Constitution to deal with an unfit
President.
There are those who would want me
to withhold my thoughts until after
there has been an investigation, when
we have clear and convincing evidence
before our very eyes of the misdeeds:
separating babies from their mothers,
who happen to be of color, I might add;
talking about s-hole countries that
happen to be where people of color live,
I might add; talking about good people,
or very fine people, in Charlottesville,
among those who are bigots, racists,
xenophobes, homophobes, and
Islamophobes.
Yes, the evidence is there, because
the President was putting in his poli-
cies these bigoted statements. These
statements went beyond his words.
They became a part of his policies. For
this, he can be impeached.
I stand where I stood 659 days ago,
and I will continue to stand until this
President is removed from office.
We can investigate to the extent that
we engage in what Dr. King called the
paralysis of analysis, just investigate
until it is time for another election,
and then the election becomes the
focal point.
My dear friends, my dear brothers
and sisters, those who desire to wait
may do so. I will not wait. Impeach-
ment is not dead.
f
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CICILLINE). The Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Kansas (Mr. MAR-
SHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the many women who
have shaped our country’s successes
and are inspiring our future.
This month, we celebrate Women’s
History Month and recognize the
women who have fought for equality
and positively impacted their commu-
nities. The courage and resolve of our
women must not go unnoticed.
In Kansas, we are always quick to
highlight the great Amelia Earhart,
our hometown aviation pioneer. But
today, I want to highlight the millions
of women around the world who have
made and continue to make significant
impacts on their families, commu-
nities, and workplaces through mean-
ingful, everyday contributions.
My own mother, Nancy, taught me
many family values that continue to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.000 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2374 March 6, 2019
give me strength and guide me
throughout fatherhood and in my ca-
reer as an obstetrician.
She instilled in me the value of prop-
er nutrition at an early age, which I
was able to go on and explain in very
commonsense terms to all my patients
as an obstetrician. My mom empha-
sized the importance of a healthy
breakfast and sitting down each night
as a family for dinner, something my
wife, Laina, and I prioritized as parents
as well.
She taught me all these lessons while
also working a full-time job as an of-
fice manager. Her dedication to her
family and career didn’t garner news
headlines, but it made a significant im-
pact and allowed me to grow up under-
standing the outcomes of hard work.
My wife, Laina, went to school to be
a nurse at Butler County Community
College and later worked in the neo-
natal intensive care unit, caring for
premature babies. She made a huge im-
pact on all those babies’ lives, as well
as their families and their develop-
ment.
Now, as a mother of four and grand-
mother of two, I often tell people my
wife has the most important job in
America: raising our children.
I know there are millions of mothers
around the globe who have and con-
tinue to provide the same energy, time,
and dedication to their children, fami-
lies, and communities. Too often, we
don’t take the time to share and cele-
brate these contributions, but we all
know a woman who has made a signifi-
cant impact on our lives.
As we celebrate Women’s History
Month, I challenge you to thank those
women who have positively influenced
your life, improved our communities,
and contributed to the success of this
great Nation.
RECOGNIZING LEADERSHIP OF DR. BOBBY MOSER
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to recognize my friend and
fellow western Kansas physician, Dr.
Bobby Moser, for his leadership with
the Kansas Heart and Stroke Collabo-
rative, an initiative funded through
CMS’ Health Care Innovation Awards.
The effort started in 2014 with the
University of Kansas Health System,
Hays Medical Center, 10 critical-access
hospitals, and the First Care Clinic to
provide an innovative care delivery and
payment model designed to improve
heart health and stroke outcomes for
rural Kansans.
When they first received this 3-year
Federal grant, they were nothing shy
of ambitious. In their proposal, they
aimed to reduce healthcare costs by
nearly $14 million and reduce deaths
from stroke and heart attack by 20 per-
cent. The collaborative wanted to ac-
complish this using data in a meaning-
ful way, enhancing bedside care, and
building sustainable models for access
and treatment.
They have indeed shown signs of good
work, and they are expanding their ef-
forts. This group has helped hospitals
track and audit data to find ways to
improve patient performance.
Dr. Moser recently reported that the
clinical network of hospitals has im-
proved medications and delivery time
for getting clot-busting drugs to pa-
tients that literally save lives and pre-
vent lifelong paralysis.
Since its inception, these physicians
have grown to reach more counties and
are able to help more patients. Now
called Care Collaborative, they are ex-
ploring new payment systems for rural
hospitals and focusing on expanding
into new medical treatments, like pal-
liative care.
With more than 50 critical-access
hospitals in my district, the resources
developed through this collaborative
have been lifesaving and critical for
our hospitals and, most importantly,
rural patients.
f
ADVOCATING FOR FEDERAL
NUTRITION PROGRAMS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN) for 5
minutes.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I am
here today to advocate for the Federal
nutrition programs that help our most
vulnerable constituents and to high-
light why these programs continue to
need our unwavering protection and at-
tention.
March 4 marked the beginning of Na-
tional School Breakfast Week, which is
designed to show parents, students, and
school officials the benefits of fueling
up for the day with a healthy school
breakfast.
I am sure it comes as no surprise to
many of you that learning improves
when students are not hungry. It is aw-
fully hard to concentrate when you
don’t have any fuel in your body.
Last week, I met with several anti-
hunger organizations from my district,
and they shared with me stories from
the people they serve on how nutrition
programs, food pantries, and school
breakfast and lunch programs impact
their lives.
Many of them wrote their thoughts
on paper plates, and I would like to
read a few of them to you.
Jay Keller from Jeremiah’s Inn in
Worcester said: ‘‘These food centers
make a huge difference when it comes
to preparing meals. Without them, I
would not be able to make ends meet.
Please keep them going. Many people
may go hungry if they do not con-
tinue.’’
A parent from Catholic Charities in
Worcester said: ‘‘SNAP and school
lunches help my daughter and I eat. It
helps us get by, and I work part-time.
Very grateful for these programs.’’
Sometimes, Mr. Speaker, school
breakfasts and lunches are the only op-
portunities a child has to receive a full
meal. For example, a student from Me-
morial Elementary School in
Winchendon said: ‘‘School lunch is im-
portant because it keeps me full until I
go home.’’ Another student from
Pernet Family Health Services in
Worcester wrote: ‘‘If I don’t eat, my
head hurts.’’
While many nutrition program par-
ticipants are children and persons with
disabilities, their reach extends to vet-
erans. A veteran from St. Anthony’s
Parish in Worcester wrote: ‘‘My food
bank provides myself and fellow vet-
erans with love and nutrients. Without
you guys, it would be a long month.
Thanks to our nuns who help us al-
ways.’’
When a family is worried about
whether they can afford basic neces-
sities, nutrition programs and the food
security they provide goes a long way.
In 2018, a monthly average of 40.3
million people participated in the
SNAP program. Despite the fact that
this number has been steadily decreas-
ing, the Trump administration has un-
veiled several baseless attacks on these
nutrition programs.
On December 20, 2018, the Trump ad-
ministration proposed a rule that will
threaten the eligibility of SNAP par-
ticipants who are considered able-bod-
ied adults without dependents. In an ef-
fort to, ironically, ‘‘restore self-suffi-
ciency through the dignity of work,’’
their rule stigmatizes SNAP partici-
pants and limits a State’s ability to
waive 20-hour work requirements.
The able-bodied adult without de-
pendents population is a complex
group. Many of them are veterans re-
turning from overseas and having a dif-
ficult time reintegrating into our com-
munity. Many of them are young
adults who have aged out of the foster
care system. Some are ex-felons who
are products of mass incarceration.
Some are workers who are not given 20
hours of work per week.
Mr. Speaker, 75 percent of SNAP par-
ticipants do work, but often in jobs
that are either unstable or don’t pay
enough to put food on the table. It is
not that the able-bodied adult without
dependents population is jobless by
choice. Many are jobless because they
lack privilege and are trying to get on
their feet.
This proposed rule also specifically
goes against the will of Congress by
imposing restrictions that were specifi-
cally rejected for inclusion in the farm
bill signed into law just last year.
As if that weren’t enough, the Trump
administration also announced its in-
tention to propose changes to categor-
ical eligibility. Categorical eligibility,
or Cat-el, is criteria used to determine
whether a family is automatically eli-
gible for SNAP because they already
qualify for certain other low-income
programs. Cat-el is fine as it is because
it eliminates redundancy and mini-
mizes hurdles that low-income families
must overcome just to keep up with
their basic needs.
While the administration changes are
forthcoming, I don’t have much opti-
mism about how they will turn out.
The current administration is trying
to solve problems that don’t exist, and
they are creating problems that have
clear solutions. That is why we must
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.002 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2375
March 6, 2019
continue to raise these issues to the
forefront of our agenda.
There is no excuse. We have the re-
sources. It is on all of us to prioritize
basic hunger needs. Supporting school
breakfast and lunch programs, and
maintaining reasonable eligibility for
nutrition assistance programs, are the
least we can do to end hunger now.
We live in the richest country in the
history of the world, and we have mil-
lions and millions of people who are
hungry. We should all be ashamed of
that.
Hunger and food insecurity are polit-
ical conditions. We can solve these
problems if we have the political will.
I urge my colleagues to gather that po-
litical will.
f
b 1015
$22 TRILLION DEBT AND DEBT
CEILING REACHED
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, America recently blew through the
$22 trillion debt mark with no end in
sight.
In January, the nonpartisan Congres-
sional Budget Office warned Wash-
ington that America faces an unending
stream of trillion-dollar-a-year deficits
beginning in FY 2022 and culminating
in a $1.4 trillion deficit in FY 2028, the
amount Congress spends each year on
our discretionary budget that pays for
the military, NASA, ATF, FBI, and al-
most every other Federal agency.
The cumulative effect of these defi-
cits is a debt that explodes from $22
trillion today to $33 trillion in a dec-
ade.
As debt goes up, so does debt service.
The CBO warns: ‘‘In CBO’s projections,
outlays for net interest increase from
$325 billion in 2018 to $383 billion . . . in
2019, and more than double by 2029, to
$928 billion’’ a year, which is the rough
equivalent of almost 50 NASA pro-
grams.
Compounding matters, this past
weekend, on March 2, the Federal Gov-
ernment hit the debt ceiling, which
means the Federal Government’s oper-
ational costs are being paid for via ex-
traordinary measures, such as bor-
rowing from the Social Security and
Medicare trust funds.
Washington’s response to this finan-
cial firestorm is akin to that of Roman
Emperor Nero, who fiddled as Rome
burned.
Rather than be proactive and work to
prevent a debilitating national insol-
vency and bankruptcy, Congress emu-
lates an ostrich that buries its head in
the sand and denies lurking danger.
In sum, America’s sea of red ink and
projected financial path is wholly and
completely unsustainable.
America must learn from financially
reckless nations like Greece and Ven-
ezuela, and from Puerto Rico, an Amer-
ican territory that defaulted on its $70
billion debt.
Unfortunately, the vast majority of
American voters are oblivious to Amer-
ica’s lurking financial dangers, in large
part because of minimal national
media coverage.
American voters are too often se-
duced by debt-junkie politicians who
promise free stuff to get elected, while
knowing full well America can’t pay
for it. If American voters do not elect
financially responsible officials to
Washington, America will succumb to
the same debilitating insolvency and
bankruptcy that wreaks havoc in
Greece and Puerto Rico, with one
major difference; unlike Greece, which
has been bailed out three times by the
European community, and unlike Puer-
to Rico, which may yet be bailed out
by American taxpayers, there is no
one, no one who can or will bail out
America.
Instead, America will be more like
Venezuela, whose annual inflation rate
now exceeds 2 million percent, where
the International Monetary Fund re-
ports there are: ‘‘Widespread shortages
of essential goods, including food, ex-
acting a tragic toll,’’ where grocery
stores have rows and rows of empty
shelves and Venezuelans can’t find food
to feed their families.
Worse yet, Venezuela’s bankruptcy
has made it one of the most violent
countries in the world, with a chilling
82 homicides per 100,000 population,
roughly 20 times worse than America’s
homicide rate. Caracas, Venezuela’s
capital is the world’s most violent city,
with a war-zone-like 120 murders per
100,000 citizens.
Mr. Speaker, America must learn
from the financially irresponsible mis-
takes of others. As the adage says, We
can either learn from history, or we are
doomed to repeat it.
American voters must wake up and
stop being seduced by the wily ways of
debt-junkie politicians who promise
anything to get elected, who pretend to
be Santa Claus, when, in fact, they are
the Grinch that stole America’s future.
Time is running out. The American
people must start being good stewards
of our Republic, and elect Washington
officials who both understand the
threat posed by defaults, and deficit,
and debt, and have the backbone to fix
it. America’s future depends on it.
f
PROTECTING ATLANTIC COASTAL
ECONOMIES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. VAN DREW) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today because I am profoundly con-
cerned with the possible permitting of
seismic airgun blasting off the Atlantic
Coast, from Jacksonville, Florida, to
Cape May, New Jersey, to Portland,
Maine. This is an extremely serious
issue.
Late last year, the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, also
known as NOAA, issued five Incidental
Harassment Authorizations which ad-
vanced permit applications for seismic
airgun blasting in the Atlantic Ocean.
This action essentially sets the stage
for the Bureau of Ocean Energy Man-
agement to approve these permits at
any day now.
Seismic airgun blasting is not only
the first step toward offshore oil and
gas exploration and development, but
it is harmful to marine mammal life
and to marine life in general, and it en-
croaches on vital military operations.
At a time when we are attempting to
limit the dangers of climate change,
such as extreme weather events like
Superstorm Sandy, it is unthinkable to
further harm the environment and en-
danger our coastal economy in South
Jersey and along the coast, which is
largely based on fishing and based on
tourism.
Our public policy goal is to create a
cleaner and healthier environment, an
environment that we can pass on to our
children and on to our grandchildren so
that they may enjoy it.
I am proud that broad arrays of orga-
nizations in New Jersey have supported
my legislation. These organizations in-
clude the Chambers of Commerce of
Cape May County, Ocean City, Vine-
land, Greater Wildwood, Greater Atlan-
tic City, the Garden State Seafood As-
sociation, the Recreational Fishing Al-
liance, the Jersey Shore Partnership,
Clean Ocean Action, Surfers Environ-
mental Alliance, the American Lit-
toral Society, Oceana, and the New
Jersey chapters of the Sierra Club, the
League of Conservation Voters, Audu-
bon Society, and Environment Amer-
ica.
Mr. Speaker, it was a pleasure to
have worked with Congressman RUTH-
ERFORD of Florida on H.R. 1149. I am
also grateful that several of our elite
colleagues joined us on important ef-
forts, including JOE CUNNINGHAM of
South Carolina, CHRIS SMITH of New
Jersey, DONNA SHALALA of Florida, and
BRIAN MAST of Florida, as well.
Our bipartisan bill, the Atlantic
Coastal Economies Protection Act,
would prevent the five seismic airgun
blasting permits that are now under
consideration from the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management from being
issued. It would stop them.
I urge my colleagues to protect our
precious coastline and to protect the
livelihoods of those that depend upon it
by supporting H.R. 1149. It is a bipar-
tisan bill. It is the Atlantic Coastal
Economies Protection Act.
Mr. Speaker, I include three letters
of support for the RECORD.
[From the Greater Atlantic City Chamber]
RESOLUTION OPPOSING BOEM 2019–2024 OUTER
CONTINENTAL SHELF OIL AND GAS LEASING
PROGRAM
Whereas, on January 8, 2018, the federal
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
(BOEM) announced in the Federal Register
notice the release of their Draft Proposed
Program (DPP) for the 2019–2024 Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program.
BOEM is requesting public comment on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.004 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2376 March 6, 2019
DPP as well as formal scoping for a Pro-
grammatic Environmental Impact State-
ment for the 2019–2024 Program; and
Whereas, this new plan includes the entire
Atlantic Ocean from Maine to Florida, in-
cluding the waters off New Jersey within 3
miles of beaches, as well as including other
ocean areas totaling some 90% of US ocean
waters; and
Whereas, New Jersey boasts over 127 miles
of beautiful ocean coastline and hundreds of
miles of back-bays, estuaries, and other wa-
terways connected to the Atlantic Ocean;
and
Whereas, the Jersey Shore is essential to
the health of the our communities, environ-
ment and the thriving economy of New Jer-
sey; and
Whereas, the physical, hydrodynamic, and
biological characteristics of the ocean off
the Jersey Shore are unique in the world, as
more than 300 species of fish, nearly 350 spe-
cies of birds, 5 species of sea turtles, and
many marine mammals such as 20 species of
whales and dolphins, 1 species of porpoise,
and 4 species of seals, frequent this region.
Nine endangered species, four of which are
whales, can be found in these ocean waters,
including the Atlantic Right Whale, one of
the world’s most endangered marine mam-
mals. The region also serves as an essential
migratory pathway for many of these spe-
cies; and
Whereas, the Jersey Shore sustains the
economy of the region with its bounty of
natural resources and intrinsic values for
millions of people through tourism. Tourism
brings more than $44 billion to NJ’s economy
each year and provides jobs to more than
500,000 people with $6.2 billion generated in
Cape May County alone; and
Whereas, recreational and commercial
fisheries in NJ provide enormous economic
benefits, including revenue, food production,
and recreational activities with the port of
Cape May and Wildwood ranking as the sec-
ond largest seaport on the east coast. In 2014,
recreational fishing supported nearly 20,000
jobs and resulted in $2 billion of retail sales.
Commercial fishing supports nearly 7,300
jobs and provides $152 million in landings,
not including restaurant and retail sales;
and
Whereas, current estimates of the amount
of technically recoverable oil off the entire
Atlantic coast from Maine to Florida would
only last the nation approximately 229 days,
and the amount of technically recoverable
gas would only last approximately 562 days;
and
Whereas, offshore oil and gas development,
causes substantial environmental impacts,
including: (a) onshore damage due to infra-
structure, (b) water pollution from drilling
muds and the water brought-up from a well
with oil and gas (called ‘‘produced waters’’),
(c) noise from seismic surveys, (d) air pollu-
tion, and (e) oil spills; and
Whereas, the harmful environmental con-
sequences of offshore oil and gas exploration
and development are serious and threatens
the environmental and economic assets of
New Jersey; and
Whereas, The BP Horizon disaster in the
Gulf of Mexico (2010) is clear evidence of the
dangers associated with offshore drilling, in-
cluding costing the lives of 11 people, dev-
astating coastal economies and countless
livelihoods, and killing countless marine
animals, as well as continuing to cause harm
to marine life as documented by a steady
flow of studies; and
Whereas, Federal Administration officials
are also weakening protections of ocean re-
sources by undermining rules and regula-
tions, cutting funding sources for spill re-
sponse; and
Whereas, oil spills travel vast distances,
and the Gulf Stream and Labrador Ocean
Current all flow toward New Jersey making
the region vulnerable to impacts from spills
anywhere in the Atlantic Ocean; and
Whereas, Within 5 days of the release of
the DPP Governor Scott from Florida was
able to convince Department of Interior Sec-
retary Zinke to remove Florida from further
consideration for drilling due to the impor-
tance of coastal tourism to that state and NJ
shares this same economic dependence on
tourism and clean ocean economies;
Whereas, bi-partisan opposition against
drilling off the New Jersey coast has in-
cluded every Governor since 1985, and a ma-
jority of the congressional delegation and
most coastal towns; and
Whereas, in the January 8, 2018, BOEM
Federal Register to requests comments on
the Draft Proposed Program (DPP) and
scoping comments for the Programmatic En-
vironmental Impact Study
Whereas, energy conservation and effi-
ciency measures can significantly reduce the
nation’s need to explore and drill for non-
renewable resources, such as oil and natural
gas; and
Whereas, coastal municipalities have a
profound interest in maintaining strong fed-
eral protections for our nation’s coastal en-
vironment, as well as the economic and so-
cial benefits it supports;
Now, therefore, be it resolved on March 5,
2018, that the Greater Atlantic City Chamber
hereby opposes offshore oil and gas explo-
ration and drilling activities that would af-
fect the coast of New Jersey, and calls upon
Secretary of the Interior Ryan K. Zinke who
oversees the Bureau of Ocean Energy Man-
agement to withdraw New Jersey and the en-
tire Atlantic Ocean from consideration for
the offshore oil and gas exploration, develop-
ment, or drilling.
JOSEPH D. KELLY,
President.
OCEAN CITY REGIONAL CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE AND VISITORS SERV-
ICES,
Ocean City, NJ, February 6, 2019.
Congressman JEFF VAN DREW,
Mays Landing, NJ.
DEAR CONGRESSMAN VAN DREW: On behalf
of the Ocean City Regional Chamber of Com-
merce, I would like extend our endorsement
of Atlantic Coastal Economies Protection
Act to prohibit the Department of the Inte-
rior from issuing certain geological and geo-
physical exploration permits under the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, and for other
purposes.
The Ocean City Regional Chamber of Com-
merce, which is comprised of more than 550
member businesses, strongly supports this
act as we are against seismic airgun blasting
in the Atlantic Ocean.
We stand by you and your support of the
Atlantic Coastal Economies Protection Act.
Kindest regards,
MICHELE GILLIAN,
Executive Director.
GREATER VINELAND CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE,
Vineland, NJ, February 7, 2019.
U.S. Representative JEFFREY VAN DREW,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSMAN VAN DREW: On behalf
of our organization, including more than 450
members, we write this letter as an endorse-
ment of your proposed bill, known as the
‘‘Atlantic Coastal Economies Protection
Act’’, to prohibit the Department of Interior
from issuing certain geological and geo-
physical exploration permits under the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, and for other
purposes.
We agree that seismic air-gun blasting in
the Atlantic Ocean has the potential to harm
or kill marine mammals and other marine
life that are vital to our region’s coastal
economies. We are also wary that the survey
data collected is not available to the public.
Thank you for your efforts in proposing
this bill.
Sincerely,
DAWN S. HUNTER,
Executive Director.
f
VISITS TO RICHLAND, CAMBRIA
HEIGHTS, AND PURCHASE LINE
HIGH SCHOOLS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, over the past couple of
weeks I had the honor of visiting three
high schools in my district, the Rich-
land High School, near Johnstown,
Cambria Heights High School, in Pat-
ton, and Purchase Line High School in
Commodore, Pennsylvania.
As a senior member of the House
Education and Labor Committee, I love
speaking with students about their
learning experiences, and hearing from
faculty and staff as well.
Last week, the Richland School Dis-
trict invited me to join them for their
Teacher-in-Service event with award-
winning educator and principal, Sa-
lome Thomas-El. It was a pleasure to
be with educators from the Cambria
County area to hear the ways that we
can work together to improve edu-
cation in America.
I enjoyed hearing Mr. Thomas-El dis-
cuss the change in attitudes and strat-
egies of school staff, parents, and mem-
bers of the community to help the stu-
dents in most need of guidance. He is
currently the head of the Thomas Edi-
son Charter School in Wilmington, and
before that, began his career as a
teacher and chess coach at Vaux Mid-
dle School.
Since then, he has published several
books, received prestigious awards, ap-
peared on television, and Disney re-
cently optioned the movie rights to his
best-selling book titled ‘‘I Chose to
Stay.’’ He has committed more than 20
years of his life to answering the ques-
tion of how to ensure that every child
achieves their greatest potential.
The question is one that all edu-
cators seek to answer and even policy-
makers in Congress; and that is why I
will continue to support legislation and
initiatives that meet the needs and
grow the potential of every student.
We must also address family poverty,
child nutrition, community violence,
and other barriers that affect student
success.
As Mr. Thomas-El says, All children
can and will learn as long as they have
adults who care enough. And he is
right. In order for our country’s stu-
dents to truly succeed, they need the
support from adults at home, in the
classroom, and throughout their com-
munities.
I left the in-service event with Rich-
land School District encouraged and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.003 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2377
March 6, 2019
confident that our educators are pro-
viding essential support to their stu-
dents.
That feeling stayed with me the next
day as I visited Cambria Heights High
School. There, I met with students rep-
resenting music, athletics, student
council, and vocational programs at
the school. Students showed me the on-
going renovations to the high school
building as part of a major renovation
of the classrooms and the cafeteria.
They also shared with me their many
accomplishments that included earning
top scores in the county on the State’s
Keystone Exams for literature and bi-
ology.
Earlier this week I participated in an
assembly at the Purchase Line High
School in Indiana County. The stu-
dents asked great questions about civic
engagement, and we had an open dia-
logue about the challenges and the op-
portunities that are facing our Nation.
Meeting with all these students gives
me great hope for the future, and I
know these students will become our
next generation of leaders, regardless
of what fields they enter after gradua-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the Richland
School District, Cambria Heights High
School, and the Purchase Line High
School for inviting me into their
schools and sharing with me the ways
they are transforming education to
help students not only graduate, but go
on to earn a higher degree or a certifi-
cation or, quite frankly, go success-
fully into the workforce.
A good education opens so many
doors in life. I am tremendously proud
of the students, faculty, and staff of
each of these outstanding institutions.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 27
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Eternal God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
During these days on the Hill, there
are many Americans walking the halls,
speaking to their Representatives
about interests of great concern to
them. The American Osteopathic Soci-
ety, the National Kidney Foundation,
the VFW, the National Down Syn-
drome Society, the Lupus Foundation,
the Boy and Girl Scouts of America,
among others, have been advocates for
so many who are in need.
We thank You that we live in a na-
tion blessed by the rights and opportu-
nities for Americans to petition their
government.
Bless the Members of this assembly,
who know best how to respond to such
entreaties, with the ability to meet so
many needs.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, pursuant to clause 1,
rule I, I demand a vote on agreeing to
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER. The question is on
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, I object to the vote on
the ground that a quorum is not
present and make the point of order
that a quorum is not present.
The SPEAKER. Pursuant to clause 8,
rule XX, further proceedings on this
question will be postponed.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. BROWNLEY)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Ms. BROWNLEY of California led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to 15 requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
CLEANING UP OUR DEMOCRACY
AND DELIVERING POWER BACK
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
(Mr. KIM asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of the efforts in Con-
gress to clean up our democracy and
deliver power back to the American
people.
I never thought that I would run for
Congress. I never thought that I would
have the chance to stand right here on
the floor of the House of Representa-
tives.
I am here today because I was tired
of watching corporations and special
interests cutting to the front of the
line ahead of the people. I was tired of
watching dark money grow, gerry-
mandering polarize our politics, and
the American people pushed aside.
Now we have a precious chance to fix
this and to build the kind of govern-
ment the American people deserve. As
we make up our minds and cast our
votes, I ask us not to think of this as
a partisan issue. I assure you that the
people in my district on both sides be-
lieve that the system isn’t working for
them.
I call on my colleagues to vote to
pass H.R. 1 and deliver the change our
constituents demand and deserve.
f
NATIONAL DAY OF THE REPUBLIC
OF BULGARIA
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, as co-chair of the Congres-
sional Bulgaria Caucus, I appreciate
Ambassador Tihomir Stoytchev and
Mrs. Lubka Stoytchev for their hosting
a reception yesterday in recognition of
National Day of the Republic of Bul-
garia at the Library of Congress, cele-
brating 141 years of liberation.
Bulgaria is a close strategic ally and
partner of the United States. This
month, we celebrate 15 years since Bul-
garia joined the NATO alliance.
During his time recently in Sofia,
NATO Secretary General Jens
Stoltenberg noted: ‘‘Bulgaria has con-
tributed to strengthening the Alli-
ance.’’ He also thanked Prime Minister
Boyko Borissov for his government’s
commitment to reach the NATO de-
fense spending goal of 2 percent.
I am confident the partnership be-
tween the United States and Bulgaria
will continue to grow in the years
ahead. It will be mutually beneficial to
promote peace through strength.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
CONSTITUENTS SHOULD BE THE
TOP PRIORITY
(Mrs. KIRKPATRICK asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. Mr. Speaker,
our constituents sent us here to rep-
resent them, to be a voice for their
families, to fight for their values, to
vote in their best interest. I am here
for the residents of Arizona’s Second
Congressional District. I am here to
work for them.
We must reject the culture of corrup-
tion here and put the power back in the
hands of the people we represent. Our
government works best when it is fo-
cused on people and American families,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.007 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2378 March 6, 2019
not some special interest group or
large corporation.
We can clean up the muddy swamp
behaviors by passing H.R. 1. We need to
reduce the role of dark special interest
money and to make it easier to vote.
We need to have some accountability
here.
I will be voting for H.R. 1 so that our
constituents become the top priority
for all of us, not special interest
groups.
f
FAIRNESS IN DISCIPLINE
(Mr. ZELDIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, there is
no room for anti-Semitism anywhere in
this Chamber.
This past January, the House voted
nearly unanimously to condemn white
supremacy, and it named a Republican
Member as we did that. I voted for
that.
Back in January, around the same
exact time, we had a Member apologize
for remarks about how Israel had hyp-
notized the world, an anti-Semitic
trope; a month later, apologizing for an
allegation that if you support Israel,
then you have been bought off by Jews;
and now, claiming that if you support
Israel, then that means that you have
allegiance to a foreign government.
But this time there will be no apol-
ogy. I commend my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle who have spoken
out against it. This Chamber today
should be taking action to condemn
anti-Semitism, to be naming names;
and where that Member in January was
removed from his committees, includ-
ing the Small Business Committee, the
Member who has been putting out all
those anti-Semitic tropes should not be
serving on her committees, especially
the House Foreign Affairs Committee,
for many reasons.
I encourage a vote today and to re-
move Congresswoman OMAR from the
House Foreign Affairs Committee.
f
SERVANT LEADERSHIP
(Mr. CROW asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CROW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to call on my colleagues to support
H.R. 1.
It is no coincidence that the largest
freshman class since Watergate will
also be the one to pass H.R. 1 this
week. We are a class that is born of
voters’ frustrations with a broken sys-
tem.
Americans have seen this Chamber
pass bills that hurt the middle class,
raise prescription drug prices, gut con-
sumer protections, and fail to act on
climate change. Why? Because the spe-
cial interests have more power than
the American people. It is the exact op-
posite of what should happen in the
people’s House.
In the Army, I was taught the values
of servant leadership. As a captain,
that meant leading by example. I
jumped out of the plane first, and only
then would my soldiers follow.
As a Member of Congress, it means
we hold ourselves to the highest stand-
ards of ethics, accountability, and
transparency. Servant leaders don’t
hold a tight grip on power; they em-
power those around them. The first
step to doing that is to pass H.R. 1 and
return power to the people who sent us
here.
Let’s show America that we are their
Representatives, and that we are elect-
ed to serve them, not the mega-donors
and not the special interests.
f
WE THE PEOPLE
(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, my favorite three words in
our Constitution are the first three
words, ‘‘We the people.’’
The will of the people is the basis of
our entire democracy. But for far too
long, special interests and big money
have rigged that system against every-
day Americans.
This week, we take a major step to
change that. We are voting on H.R. 1,
transformational legislation that will
finally put the power back in the hands
of the American people, by toughening
Federal ethics laws, fixing the broken
campaign finance system, and
strengthening voting rights, including
two bills that I have worked on with
my colleagues to end partisan gerry-
mandering and requiring same-day
voter registration.
I encourage everyone to support H.R.
1 this week, because it is long past
time we return our government to one
that is of the people, by the people, and
for the people once again.
f
FREE AND FAIR ELECTIONS
(Mr. MOULTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MOULTON. Mr. Speaker, amidst
the tragedies of the Iraq war, I wit-
nessed one of the proudest demonstra-
tions of democracy in modern times.
When Iraqis voted for the first time,
they dipped their fingers in ink and,
rather than hiding those fingers for
fear of reprisal, they held them high
walking through the streets.
What they were saying was that, for
the first time in their lives, their opin-
ion mattered. Their vote counted. It is
the most fundamental requirement of a
democracy. Yet, today, we know that
this basic right has never been truly
guaranteed here at home.
Our elections are not free when
Americans must choose between pro-
viding for their families and casting a
vote; our elections are not fair when
gerrymandering predetermines them or
dark money makes some votes count
more than others; and our people do
not have a voice when they are turned
away by voter ID laws that make it
easier to buy a gun than cast a vote.
H.R. 1 changes that, taking a stand
against Citizens United, resolving to
end gerrymandering, and making it far
easier for Americans to vote.
I believe that America, however im-
perfect, is the greatest democracy on
Earth. H.R. 1 finally makes us act that
way.
f
WE CAN AND WE MUST DO
BETTER
(Mr. PHILLIPS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PHILLIPS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
voice my full-hearted support of H.R. 1,
the For the People Act.
As I spend time with parents and
business owners, retirees and
millennials, Republicans and Demo-
crats back home in Minnesota, one
thing is clear: People are losing faith
in the integrity and fairness of our po-
litical system, and for good reason.
When I arrived in Washington, I wit-
nessed firsthand the corrupting influ-
ence of money and politics: envelopes
with PAC checks offered after hand-
shakes and a culture in which votes
often seem to have price tags attached.
We can do better, and we must do
better. That is why I say, no matter
your number one issue, please make
campaign finance reform your number
two because we cannot address our
country’s greatest challenges when we
place special interests over our com-
mon interests.
So let’s pass H.R. 1 and begin the
hard and principled work of restoring
our democracy for the people.
f
AMERICANS ARE LOSING FAITH IN
THEIR GOVERNMENT
(Mr. MALINOWSKI asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in support of H.R. 1.
When I was running for Congress, I
heard again and again that Americans
are losing faith in their government,
asking why the votes they cast don’t
lead to the outcomes they want.
At a time when we are so divided, I
can think of nothing more unifying
than a bill that addresses the source of
their discontent.
To those who have raised concerns
about H.R. 1 here, let me say that, in
my district, I have not met a single
person, Republican or Democrat, who
thinks it is a good idea to let non-
donors spend millions of untraceable
dollars on political attack ads or to
have a campaign finance system so
opaque that Russian oligarchs can eas-
ily channel money into it.
I haven’t met a single person, Repub-
lican or Democrat, who thinks it is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.009 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2379
March 6, 2019
just fine for Members of Congress to
serve on corporate boards or for Presi-
dents to hide their tax returns, or any-
one who is pleased with partisan gerry-
mandering or who is happy that we
have done nothing to secure our elec-
tions from foreign hacking since 2016.
These are not partisan issues among
the American people. On the contrary,
when I vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 1, I will be
doing what the vast majority of my
constituents are demanding: to make
our democracy work better for every-
one, regardless of our party or our
point of view.
I can’t wait to cast that vote.
f
b 1215
EXPANDING ACCESS TO QUALITY
AFFORDABLE HEALTHCARE
(Mr. DELGADO asked and was given
permission to address the House for
one minute.)
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise in support of the Medicare Drug
Price Negotiation Act, a bill that I am
proud to cosponsor. This bill is a crit-
ical step in expanding access to quality
affordable healthcare by bringing down
prescription drug costs.
Too many of my constituents and too
many Americans across this country
can’t afford the healthcare coverage
they need. There is no bigger driver of
this problem than the skyrocketing
cost of prescription drugs.
The United States pays the highest
prices for prescription drugs in the
world, and over the past decade, the
prices of 90 percent of brand name
drugs have more than doubled.
How is it that one in five American
adults cannot afford the medicine they
need?
In the wealthiest country in the
world, it is inexcusable that we have
seniors who have to choose between
their prescriptions and buying gro-
ceries, cancer patients who can’t afford
their drugs, and diabetics who need to
ration the insulin they need to survive.
The Medicare Prescription Drug
Price Negotiation Act couldn’t be more
commonsense. It allows the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services to
negotiate Medicare drug prices, put-
ting consumers first, not the drug in-
dustry.
My constituents sent me here with a
clear mandate to fight for quality af-
fordable healthcare, and this bill is a
crucial part of that work.
f
OUR POLITICS IS BROKEN
(Mr. COX of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for one minute.)
Mr. COX of California. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in support of H.R. 1, the For
the People Act.
I am an engineer, and as an engineer,
I fix things that are broken, but it
doesn’t take an engineer to tell you
that our politics is broken. Confidence
in our government and in the House of
Representatives has never been lower.
We have a system of gerrymandering
where in many parts of the country
today, voters don’t choose their politi-
cians, politicians choose their voters.
Special interest money has drowned
out the voices of working people.
H.R. 1 is an opportunity to fix this
imbalance. H.R. 1 will ensure the peo-
ples’ voices are heard at the ballot box.
H.R. 1 will ensure the influence of big
money in our politics and our policies
is ended.
H.R. 1 will ensure the voices of the
people are heard.
Passing this bill is a moral impera-
tive for our democracy and our Nation.
f
CAMPAIGN EXPENDITURES
EXPANSION TO CHILDCARE
(Ms. PORTER asked and was given
permission to address the House for
one minute.)
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I am a
single mom. When I ran for Congress
last year, I spent thousands and thou-
sands of dollars on childcare.
Running for Federal office requires
60- to 90-hour workweeks. I worked
every single day, every single weekend,
and I also worked challenging hours,
most days starting at 6:45 in the morn-
ing and ending with campaign events
stretching well into the night.
I juggled dozens of childcare pro-
viders for nearly two years, without
whom I would never have made it to
Congress.
I have three children: Betsy, who is 7;
Paul, who is 10; and Luke, who is 13.
Leaving them alone was not an option
and bringing them on the campaign
trail was often impossible, inappro-
priate, and could have even been dan-
gerous.
For the past two centuries, Congress
has written many, many laws about
what women may and may not do, but
until this year, women’s representation
in Congress was less than 20 percent.
Even with the election of my historic
class, we are only 102 women. There are
even fewer moms in Congress and even
fewer single moms, as in, nobody but
me.
I have introduced language today as
a standalone bill I will introduce.
f
MAKING IT EASIER, NOT HARDER,
FOR PEOPLE TO VOTE
(Ms. WEXTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for
one minute.)
Ms. WEXTON. Mr. Speaker, our de-
mocracy isn’t working the way it
should for a majority of Americans,
but H.R. 1, the For the People Act, can
fix that.
This legislation will end partisan ger-
rymandering by creating independent
redistricting commissions, letting the
voters choose the politicians, not the
politicians choosing their voters.
H.R. 1 will promote online registra-
tion, same day and automatic voter
registration, because we should be
making it easier, not harder, for people
to vote.
It also prohibits arbitrary voter roll
purges, expands early voting and vote-
by-mail options, and ensures the res-
toration of voting rights for those who
have paid their dues to society.
The right to vote is the cornerstone
of our democracy. It is as sacred as the
freedom of religion and speech.
The American people want clean and
fair elections, and H.R. 1 is a once-in-a-
generation opportunity to restore the
faith and function in American democ-
racy.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 1, FOR THE PEOPLE ACT
OF 2019, AND PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 172 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 172
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1) to expand
Americans’ access to the ballot box, reduce
the influence of big money in politics, and
strengthen ethics rules for public servants,
and for other purposes. The first reading of
the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. General debate shall be confined to
the bill and shall not exceed two hours
equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on House Administration. After gen-
eral debate the bill shall be considered for
amendment under the five-minute rule. In
lieu of the amendment in the nature of a
substitute recommended by the Committee
on House Administration now printed in the
bill, an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of Rules Com-
mittee Print 116-7, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of the report of the
Committee on Rules accompanying this res-
olution, shall be considered as adopted in the
House and in the Committee of the Whole.
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as
the original bill for the purpose of further
amendment under the five-minute rule and
shall be considered as read. All points of
order against provisions in the bill, as
amended, are waived.
SEC. 2. (a) No further amendment to the
bill, as amended, shall be in order except
those printed in part B of the report of the
Committee on Rules accompanying this res-
olution and amendments en bloc described in
section 3 of this resolution.
(b) Each further amendment printed in
part B of the report of the Committee on
Rules shall be considered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be
considered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment,
and shall not be subject to a demand for divi-
sion of the question in the House or in the
Committee of the Whole.
(c) All points of order against the further
amendments printed in part B of the report
of the Committee on Rules or amendments
en bloc described in section 3 of this resolu-
tion are waived.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.011 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2380 March 6, 2019
SEC. 3. It shall be in order at any time for
the chair of the Committee on House Admin-
istration or her designee to offer amend-
ments en bloc consisting of amendments
printed in part B of the report of the Com-
mittee on Rules accompanying this resolu-
tion not earlier disposed of. Amendments en
bloc offered pursuant to this section shall be
considered as read, shall be debatable for 20
minutes equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on House Administration or
their designees, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question in the
House or in the Committee of the Whole.
SEC. 4. After the conclusion of consider-
ation of the bill for amendment and a final
period of general debate, which shall not ex-
ceed 10 minutes equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on House Admin-
istration, the Committee shall rise and re-
port the bill to the House with such further
amendments as may have been adopted. The
previous question shall be considered as or-
dered on the bill and amendments thereto to
final passage without intervening motion ex-
cept one motion to recommit with or with-
out instructions.
SEC. 5. It shall be in order at any time on
the legislative day of March 7, 2019, or March
8, 2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions
that the House suspend the rules as though
under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or
her designee shall consult with the Minority
Leader or his designee on the designation of
any matter for consideration pursuant to
this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
SARBANES). The gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania is recognized for 1 hour.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, for the
purpose of debate only, I yield the cus-
tomary 30 minutes to the gentleman
from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE), the distin-
guished ranking member of the Com-
mittee on Rules, pending which I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
During consideration of this resolu-
tion, all time yielded is for the purpose
of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
be given 5 legislative days to revise and
extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, on
Tuesday, the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 172,
providing for consideration of H.R. 1,
the For the People Act of 2019, under a
structured rule.
The rule provides 2 hours of general
debate equally divided and controlled
by the chair and ranking member of
the Committee on House Administra-
tion.
The resolution self-executes Chair-
woman LOFGREN’s manager’s amend-
ment and provides for the consider-
ation of 72 amendments debatable for
10 minutes each.
The rule also provides authority for
en bloc amendments, debatable for 20
minutes each.
The rule also provides 10 minutes of
final general debate after amendment
consideration equally divided and con-
trolled by the Chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on
House Administration or their des-
ignees.
Lastly, the rule provides suspension
authority through Friday, March 8,
2019.
Mr. Speaker, as you know, this past
weekend, I had the honor of traveling
to Selma, Alabama, with over 40 of our
congressional colleagues on a pilgrim-
age to observe the 54th anniversary of
Bloody Sunday, the violent confronta-
tion at the Edmund Pettus Bridge in
Selma.
That confrontation seized the Na-
tion’s attention and launched one of
the most important periods in the his-
tory of our Republic, culminating in
the passage of the Voting Rights Act.
When our colleague, Representative
JOHN LEWIS, along with Martin Luther
King and other civil rights pioneers,
organized voters to register, crossed
the Edmund Pettus Bridge and
marched from Selma to Montgomery,
they did so knowing that their lives
and the lives of those they loved were
at risk.
The institutional opposition they
faced was fierce and violent, but their
message of nonviolence and justice
strengthened them and their resolve.
They marched and risked their lives
in order to secure the right to vote.
They understood that they would never
be equal citizens of the United States
until they had a voice in their destiny,
and they understood that the United
States could never be the republic it
aspired to become until all of its citi-
zens had the right to participate in de-
cisions affecting their future.
We undeniably have made progress
since then, but not enough, and fright-
eningly, we seem to be moving back-
ward.
In recent years, we have seen new
forms of voter suppression emerge,
whether in the guise of strict voter ID
laws, purges of voting rolls, partisan
gerrymandering, or unfounded allega-
tions of voter fraud.
As an election official, election pro-
tection organizer, and voting rights ad-
vocate for over 3 decades, I have seen
all of these tactics in play. In fact, sev-
eral of us in the Pennsylvania delega-
tion were able to join this Congress in
part because a Federal court ordered
that Pennsylvania’s congressional dis-
tricts had been so gerrymandered that
they must be redrawn, they were un-
constitutional.
We have heard, and will undoubtedly
hear again today, that Democrats are
pushing voting rights reform because
of the expectation that new voters will
likely be Democratic voters. I would
hope that those with a sense of history
would resist this, recognizing that the
very same argument was used to op-
pose the Voting Rights Act in 1965 out
of fear that those who had been op-
pressed would factor that experience
into their voting decisions.
It is telling that a similar fear moti-
vates some in this Chamber today who
would rather deprive citizens of a fun-
damental right than face them at the
ballot box.
The cynicism of those who would
continue to place barriers in the way of
those who wish to vote goes a long way
to explaining why our citizens lack
faith in us to work for them.
Those with power, voting and other-
wise, too often try to preserve that
power through means that are neither
transparent nor understood by the peo-
ple of this country. We have to be bold,
and shed some of that institutional
power in order to regain the trust of
the people.
b 1230
I thank my colleague, Representative
JOHN SARBANES, who has worked for
years in tirelessly crafting this legisla-
tion. I also thank Speaker PELOSI and
the Democratic leadership team for
making this bill the top priority in the
House for the 116th Congress. I am so
proud that the first order of business of
this Congress, our H.R. 1, is dedicated
to good government and restoring trust
in our democratic institutions.
Our elections are the bedrock of our
democracy. During the recent midterm
elections, the American people charged
us, the new Congress, to make sure
that our government works for them.
They put their trust in us to champion
our uniquely American creed: a govern-
ment of the people, by the people, and
for the people.
H.R. 1, the For the People bill, is our
commitment to that trust. This reform
package will address many of the bar-
riers to democracy that prevent too
many eligible voters from having their
voices heard, including our seniors,
communities of color, servicemembers,
college students, those with disabil-
ities, and low-income families. But it is
up to us to see it through.
I am immensely proud to be part of a
Caucus that is prioritizing legislation
that the people are asking for, legisla-
tion that will protect the right to vote
for every American and ensure clean
and fair elections, that will end the
dominance of big money in our politics,
and that will crack down on corruption
to make sure that public servants put
the public interest first.
Recent polls have found that many
Americans do not vote because of dif-
ficulty registering or accessing their
polling places and that Americans are
really concerned about the ethical
standards of their elected representa-
tives and government officials and are
equally concerned about the influence
of special interests and corruption in
Washington.
Mr. Speaker, the Democratic major-
ity takes what the people are asking
for seriously. This is a bill that ad-
dresses their concerns and resets our
democracy so that it works for the peo-
ple, not special interests.
H.R. 1 will make it easier for eligible
Americans to vote. Allowing and ena-
bling Americans to vote should not be
a divisive partisan issue. Our Nation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.002 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2381
March 6, 2019
can only stand to benefit when all eli-
gible voters have a voice.
The very fact that my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle have greater
electoral success when fewer people
come out to vote is not just a stain on
our democracy but a direct threat to
it.
Automatic voter registration will
make it easier for young adults and
working families to make sure that
they are not left out of the process due
to issues with registration.
This bill will make critical fixes to
voter purging policies that have disen-
franchised millions since section 4 of
the Voting Rights Act was struck down
by the Supreme Court in Shelby v.
Holder. Over 4 million more names
were purged from voter rolls after that
decision came down than they were in
the years before. These purges affected
poor minority communities at a vastly
disproportionate rate, further
marginalizing people who already face
significant institutional barriers to
voting.
Election security has been a bipar-
tisan concern across the country for
years, and H.R. 1 will make consider-
able investments to ensure our elec-
tions are secure, independent, and free
from foreign interference. Empowering
the Election Assistance Commission
will allow States to get the funding
they need to upgrade or improve their
election infrastructure, and improve-
ments in election administration will
help protect voting systems from cyber
threats.
Election infrastructure is critical,
and this bill finally recognizes the role
that Congress must play in protecting
our elections.
A specific priority of mine that I am
excited to see included in the bill will
make it easier for persons with disabil-
ities to participate in the electoral
process. For too long, individuals with
disabilities have faced barriers that
prevent them from participating in our
democracy at the ballot box. I have in-
troduced legislation included in H.R. 1
that will direct and assist States to im-
prove access to voter registration and
the ballot box for persons with disabil-
ities.
These democracy-driven policies rep-
resent just a handful of the voting
rights reforms contained in H.R. 1.
They will improve access to voting,
promote integrity in the voting proc-
ess, and ensure the security of our elec-
tions.
Going further, H.R. 1 acts to shine a
light and address the dark money
which the Citizens United decision un-
leashed into our politics. Each year
that we do not act on reversing Citi-
zens United, more and more
untraceable money is spent on cam-
paigns.
This bill will overhaul the Federal
Election Commission, the FEC, so that
we have a real cop on the beat to en-
force our campaign finance laws.
It will upgrade political advertising
disclosures and require donors giving
more than $10,000 to politically active
organizations to be publicly identified.
Simultaneously, this bill seeks to
empower everyday Americans by cre-
ating a small-dollar match system that
will bring more people into the con-
versation while reducing the impact
large donors can have on any one cam-
paign. While small-dollar campaign
funding is relatively new to the Fed-
eral system, it has been trialed in
States and larger cities to great effect.
I am proud that H.R. 1 also includes
a bill that I drafted to keep Presi-
dential inaugural funds from becoming
shadowy slush funds or opportunities
for dark forces, whether foreign or do-
mestic, to influence our government.
The bill will prohibit donations to in-
augural funds by foreign nationals or
corporations, ban personal use of inau-
gural funds by a candidate, and require
disclosure of all donations and dis-
bursements.
H.R. 1 will also help to restore voter
confidence in our democracy by codi-
fying ethics standards for all three
branches of government. The bill re-
quires the development of a code of
ethics for Supreme Court Justices,
mandatory recusal of Presidential ap-
pointees from matters that concern the
President, and increased enforcement
of the registration of foreign agents.
The bill will prohibit Members of
Congress from using taxpayer funds to
settle employment discrimination
cases against them, preventing Mem-
bers of Congress from hiding this con-
duct and protecting taxpayer money
from being misused.
Finally, H.R. 1 will address Presi-
dential conflicts of interest by requir-
ing sitting Presidents and Vice Presi-
dents, as well as Presidential and Vice
Presidential candidates, to release
their tax returns. Those occupying the
highest office in the land should be re-
quired to show if they have financial
interests that would influence their de-
cisionmaking. Having an executive be-
holden in any way to a private com-
pany or a nation only serves to under-
mine our democracy.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend,
the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania
(Ms. SCANLON) for yielding me the cus-
tomary 30 minutes.
Mr. Speaker, we had quite the debate
on this bill in the Rules Committee
last night, and I expect the debate on
the floor today will be along similar
lines. Today’s bill is H.R. 1, which my
friends on the other side of the aisle
are calling by the misnomer ‘‘For the
People Act.’’ Unfortunately, this bill is
completely misnamed.
It is not for the people. It is, instead,
for the Democratic majority, by the
Democratic majority, in hopes of main-
taining the Democratic majority for
many years to come. Every provision
in this bill reflects that goal.
That began with the process the ma-
jority used to put this bill together.
H.R. 1 was referred to 10 different com-
mittees, yet only one, House Adminis-
tration, held a markup. My friends
hold a 2-to-1 advantage on that com-
mittee. There are only three Repub-
licans who can participate.
Later, we will be hearing from some
of the Republican ranking members of
these committees, each of whom will
talk about provisions that they had
hoped to address, had their respective
committees marked up the bill. This
failure to allow other committees with
jurisdiction to mark up the bill rein-
forces the desire of the majority to
push this bill through as quickly as
possible without any additional consid-
eration. Without further hearings and
markups, it is all too easy for the ma-
jority to sweep the bill’s flaws under
the rug and pass it quickly without al-
lowing the American people to see
what they are up to.
This bill would be more aptly named
the ‘‘For the Politicians Act’’ or ‘‘Wel-
fare for Politicians Act.’’ It reinforces
the idea that the majority cares only
about passing a bill that will lead to
more Democrats in the House of Rep-
resentatives.
We do not have time today to go over
every provision in this bill, but for
now, I will take a moment to point out
some of the bigger flaws in this prod-
uct.
First, H.R. 1 takes taxpayer dollars
and uses them to create a special piggy
bank for campaigns. That is right,
Democrats want to use taxpayer dol-
lars of the American people to finance
their political campaigns. H.R. 1 cre-
ates a matching program for small-dol-
lar campaign contributions, thereby
shifting taxpayer dollars to politicians
to run their campaigns. In essence,
Democrats are demanding that your
tax dollars be used to subsidize and
fund political candidates.
According to the Bipartisan Policy
Center, since 2000, total spending on
Federal elections has exploded, going
from $2.7 billion that cycle to $6.4 bil-
lion in 2016. With so much money being
raised from private sources, one won-
ders why the majority wants to waste
taxpayer dollars adding even more
money into campaigns.
Second, H.R. 1 completely takes over
elections, removing authority from
States and local election boards and
giving it to Washington, D.C. Cur-
rently, States have the authority to
determine how they want to structure
their own elections, including voter
registration, timing, and even redis-
tricting. But all that goes away under
H.R. 1. States would no longer be able
to set voter registration requirements,
nor hold elections where and how often
they want, nor reapportion voters into
appropriate districts. Instead, under
H.R. 1, Washington, D.C., takes over all
these functions.
I doubt any secretary of state or su-
pervisor of elections in America sup-
ports this federalization of the election
process. In fact, last night in the Rules
Committee meeting, Mr. Speaker, I en-
tered into the record a letter from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.015 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2382 March 6, 2019
Oklahoma State Election Board oppos-
ing H.R. 1 on precisely these grounds.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
that letter again today.
OKLAHOMA STATE ELECTION BOARD,
Oklahoma City, OK, March 4, 2019.
Re Election Administration Provisions of
H.R. 1.
Hon. TOM COLE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE COLE: As Okla-
homa’s chief state election official, I am
very proud of Oklahoma’s election system.
Our state has one of the most effective and
efficient election systems in the world. It is
uniform, it is fair, it is secure, it is accurate
and it is fast.
As the House of Representatives prepares
to consider H.R. 1, I want to take a moment
to express some concerns about several of its
provisions related to election administra-
tion. While I believe H.R. 1 to be well-inten-
tioned by its sponsors, its ‘‘one-size-fits-all’’
requirements for state election systems
would require Oklahoma to make extensive
changes to the way we run elections. I am
concerned that some of H.R. 1’s mandates
could negatively impact the very things
Oklahoma’s election system does so well.
Based on my review of H.R. 1, here is a list
of my top concerns.
‘‘Voting by Mail’’: To combat Oklahoma’s
past history of absentee ballot fraud, several
decades ago the Oklahoma Legislature en-
acted legislation requiring most voters to
have their identity confirmed by a notary
public when voting by absentee ballot. Okla-
homa law also requires absentee ballots to be
received by the county election board no
later than 7:00 p.m. on Election Day. These
procedures help prevent fraud and enable
county election boards to have 100% of ab-
sentee ballots counted on election night. Un-
fortunately, H.R. 1 seems to do away with
these safeguards and efficiencies, instead re-
quiring county election boards to (1) accept
signed affidavits in lieu of notarized ones and
(2) to accept an absentee ballot postmarked
on Election Day. H.R. 1’s mandates would
prevent Oklahoma from counting all absen-
tee ballots by Election Day, would require
the counting of absentee ballots to continue
for days or weeks after an election, and
would take away a critical security feature
of our election system.
‘‘Early voting’’: In Oklahoma, county elec-
tion boards typically have a very small staff.
(Many have only the secretary and one as-
sistant.) For federal and state elections,
Oklahoma currently allows ‘‘early voting’’
on the Thursday, Friday and Saturday prior
to Election Day. Most counties have a single
early voting site, but several have two sites.
Even with the assistance of absentee voting
boards paid for by the State Election Board,
most counties barely have enough budget
and staff to successfully conduct early vot-
ing on the three days currently required.
H.R. 1’s requirement for FIFTEEN CON-
SECUTIVE DAYS of early voting is simply
not feasible given the small budgets and
staffing levels of the 77 county election
boards. This would make it virtually impos-
sible for county election board staff to per-
form their other critical duties (e.g., proc-
essing mail absentee ballots, processing
voter registration applications, and pre-
paring supplies for precinct workers) if they
are instead conducting early voting during
this time.
‘‘Same Day Voter Registration’’: Okla-
homa has a very reasonable deadline for
voter registration (applications must be sub-
mitted by the 24th day prior to an election).
H.R. 1 requires county election boards to
conduct voter registration during ‘‘early’’
voting periods and on Election Day. This
mandate is not currently feasible with the
current funding and staffing levels of county
election boards. The logistics of predicting
how many ballots to print and how many
precinct officials to assign to polling places,
with the number of potential voters un-
known, would be extremely difficult and in-
efficient. Same day voter registration in-
creases the risk that due to error or fraud an
ineligible person is allowed to register and
vote.
‘‘Provisional ballots’’: Oklahoma has a
county-based election system. While Okla-
homa uses the same voting system state-
wide, for security reasons each county’s sys-
tem is siloed and does not directly interact
with other counties’ systems. (For example,
one county cannot print or count another
county’s ballot.) Oklahoma law requires a
voter to vote in the assigned polling place in
the county where the voter is registered.
Provisional ballots are issued for a variety of
reasons, and, if eligible, are counted after
2:00 p.m. on the Friday following Election
Day. However, H.R. 1 requires a provisional
ballot to be counted even if it is cast in the
wrong county, which creates a security risk
and is not currently possible given Okla-
homa’s election security features.
‘‘Online Voter Registration’’: Oklahoma
will implement online voter registration in
the near future. Unfortunately, H.R. 1 sets
different requirements for its federally-man-
dated online voter registration system than
is required by Oklahoma law. (For example,
H.R. 1 does everything from defining accept-
able signature requirements, to mandating a
telephone version of an online voter registra-
tion system, to micromanaging the features
required for a state’s customer support sys-
tem.) Further, Oklahoma’s future online
voter registration system will require that a
registrant’s identity be conformed by match-
ing the person’s information with an existing
driver license or state I.D., but H.R. 1 sets
different (and less secure) standards for con-
firming a registrant’s identity.
‘‘Federalism’’: While I believe H.R. 1’s
sponsors are well-intentioned, a great many
of its election provisions—even those that
are not concerns—relate to policy decisions
that are best left to the states under our fed-
eral system. I am concerned that, in its cur-
rent form, H.R. 1 could lead to costly and
lengthy litigation.
While these are not my only concerns, they
are the most serious. I appreciate your rep-
resentation of our state in Congress, and I
feel it is my duty as Oklahoma’s chief elec-
tion official to make you aware of some of
the potential negative impacts H.R. 1 could
have on our state’s election system.
If you ever have any questions about elec-
tions in Oklahoma, please feel free to con-
tact me or Assistant Secretary Pam Slater.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
PAUL ZIRIAX, SECRETARY,
Oklahoma State Election Board.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I would also
point out that, in the case of redis-
tricting, if the State cannot reach a
resolution, H.R. 1 hands over the redis-
tricting function to an unelected Fed-
eral court here in Washington, D.C. Ev-
erywhere you look, this bill represents
an erosion of traditional State author-
ity and a power grab for Democrats
here in Washington.
Perhaps even more egregiously, the
bill places limits on freedom of speech,
criminalizing actions that we would
currently describe as mere advocacy
for candidates. Not since the Sedition
Act of 1798 has the Federal Government
tried to pass something that tramples
so heavily on freedom of speech as H.R.
1. The bill is so bad in this regard that
even the American Civil Liberties
Union is opposing it, which is a perfect
illustration of just how bad H.R. 1 real-
ly is.
Mr. Speaker, I could go on and on.
Everywhere you look, H.R. 1 fails to do
what the majority has promised. They
have promised it is to be about return-
ing power to the people. Instead, this
bill only gives power and money to
Democratic politicians. It takes away
authority from States and gives it to
the Federal Government, wastes tax-
payer dollars on political campaigns,
weakens the voting system, and limits
freedom of speech.
In sum, Mr. Speaker, I cannot imag-
ine how any Member can stand up with
a straight face and support this bill. I
urge opposition to the rule, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. CASTOR).
Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the gentlewoman from the
Rules Committee for yielding the time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
For the People Act, H.R. 1, and the
rule.
We promised the American people,
and our neighbors back home have
urged us on, to strengthen America’s
ethics laws, to fix our broken campaign
finance system, and to empower Amer-
ican voters.
I represent the State of Florida, and
you better believe that we have to pro-
tect access to the ballot box, ensure
the voting rights of everyone, and
count every vote.
I thank the Rules Committee for in-
cluding a bipartisan amendment that I
have worked on to address the abuse of
zombie campaigns. Many folks don’t
understand this, but sometimes Mem-
bers who retire from Congress keep
their campaign accounts, and they live
on for decades, hence the title ‘‘zombie
campaigns.’’ Oftentimes, they will mis-
use the unspent campaign funds. It is
wrong for campaign accounts to live on
forever, and we are going to address
that abuse as well.
This bill has important reforms that
strengthen American democracy, root
out corruption, and ensure that our
government here in the United States
of America works for the people.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a strong bipar-
tisan vote.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the distinguished gentleman
from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS), my good
friend.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
the resolution for consideration of H.R.
1.
H.R. 1 includes provisions that fall
under the jurisdiction of the House
Science, Space, and Technology Com-
mittee, of which I am ranking member.
Buried in the 600-page bill are re-
quirements that would greatly expand
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.016 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2383
March 6, 2019
the role of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, NIST, in
election security. NIST is an important
agency under our committee’s jurisdic-
tion. NIST also plays an important
nonregulatory role, providing guidance
to State and local governments to help
ensure that election results are secure
and accurate.
Keeping our elections safe from
cyberattacks and fraud is not a par-
tisan priority. It is a priority for all of
us.
Unlike the more partisan parts of
H.R. 1, I believe that if we had been
given a chance on the committee,
Chairwoman EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
and I would have been able to come to
an agreement on bipartisan legislation
to update NIST election security ac-
tivities.
b 1245
However, the Democratic leadership
has rushed this legislation to the floor
without giving our committee an op-
portunity to even hold a single hearing
on the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentleman an additional 15 seconds.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, quite sim-
ply, all of the issues raised from NIST
were ignored. The opportunity to have
a hearing on this subject matter in the
committee was ignored.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote against the rule and the under-
lying bill. We can do better.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Mr. CICILLINE).
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in strong support of the rule and, of
course, in support of H.R. 1, the For the
People Act, which would provide the
most significant reform to our demo-
cratic system in decades.
This landmark legislation represents
the fulfillment of a promise to the
American people to restore our democ-
racy by expanding access to the ballot,
reducing the corrupting influence of
corporate money and political cam-
paigns, and restoring ethics, integrity,
and transparency to government.
We live in a time in our Nation’s his-
tory where Americans have a deep
sense that government does not work
for them, and they are right. That cyn-
icism is caused by policies that respond
to the voices of the rich and powerful
while ignoring those of ordinary Amer-
icans and practices that seek to reduce
and restrict participation in our elec-
toral process.
Americans are sick and tired of cor-
ruption and mismanagement here in
Washington, and they elected us with
the expectation that we will take real
steps to clean up the mess and return
power to the people of our great coun-
try.
H.R. 1 provides us with the oppor-
tunity to do this by offering the most
sweeping reforms to our democracy
since Watergate, and it makes real
strides in rooting out corruption,
strengthening voting rights, and re-
storing government by and for the peo-
ple.
I want to particularly thank you, Mr.
Speaker, for your extraordinary leader-
ship in shaping this bill and drafting it
and working with our colleagues all
across the Caucus and producing this
product.
H.R. 1 includes the DISCLOSE Act,
which I introduced to shine the light
on unlimited corporate spending that
has overrun our elections.
Without fixing our broken campaign
finance system and taking power from
the powerful special interests and re-
turning it to the people of this coun-
try, it will also be impossible to make
progress on the other issues that are
important to the American people.
The DISCLOSE Act will require orga-
nizations that spend money on elec-
tions to promptly disclose donors who
give $10,000 or more during the election
cycle and prevent political operatives
from actions meant to conceal the
identity of donors.
I have also introduced legislation
which would require motor vehicle reg-
istries to automatically register all eli-
gible citizens to vote when they obtain
services from their motor vehicle reg-
istries.
In 2006, at least 32.6 million eligible
Americans were not registered to vote
and, thus, unable to cast a ballot.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentleman from Rhode Island an
additional 1 minute.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, making
registration automatic will ensure that
everyone who wishes to be added to the
voter rolls will not have to think twice
about it, and I am proud that H.R. 1
will implement automatic voter reg-
istration.
For too long, Mr. Speaker, Wash-
ington has acted on behalf of wealthy
and powerful special interests. Last
Congress, Republicans passed legisla-
tion to take away healthcare from 23
million Americans, to give billions in
tax cuts to billionaires, and to ease gun
restrictions in the wake of the dead-
liest shooting in modern America.
Americans responded by voting them
out and entrusting us to clean up this
culture of corruption. Let us repay
that trust by passing this landmark
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the For the People Act, and I
urge adoption of the rule.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the distinguished gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. PERRY).
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr.
COLE) for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, this rule is about what
is called the For the People Act, but,
to me, it should be called the ‘‘For the
Swamp Act.’’
Now, we are going to have plenty of
time later to debate the particulars of
the bill, but right now we are talking
about the rule and what brings this to
the floor.
I just want to remind everybody that
this bill was given jurisdiction in 10
committees—10 committees—but 1
committee marked it up; one com-
mittee took a look at it and said: Well,
this is wrong. Let’s fix this. Let’s
change that.
One committee with nine people—2
percent of Congress—has been involved
in this bill.
Now, we understand we are in the mi-
nority here. We get that. We get that
we are not going to get our way, but we
are asking to have a say. That is all we
are asking for here.
This bill is about shutting down the
open process and honest debate—this
rule resolution, which actually makes
sense, because the underlying bill does
the same thing for the American peo-
ple.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
31⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN), the
distinguished chairman of the Com-
mittee of Rules.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the gentlewoman from Penn-
sylvania (Ms. SCANLON) for yielding me
the time.
Mr. Speaker, in 1997, I stood on this
floor and urged action to fix our bro-
ken campaign finance system. I spoke
then about how newspapers were filled
with daily stories detailing how un-
regulated campaign contributions were
corrupting our political system and
threatening the very essence of our de-
mocracy. That was my first year serv-
ing in this institution.
I am sorry to say that this problem
hasn’t only persisted, it has gotten
worse than many of us could have ever
imagined.
Who could have thought that the Su-
preme Court would issue a disaster rul-
ing like Citizens United? that some
would try to have us believe that cor-
porations are people? that we would
have a President in the White House
who has taken the Republican culture
of corruption to a whole new level?
Now, I could go on and on, Mr.
Speaker. The news that once made the
front page of the newspaper is now in
front of us on our smartphones non-
stop.
We see over and over again how big
money has infected our political proc-
ess and prevented action on things that
the American people care most about,
how new roadblocks are being put in
place to prevent some eligible Ameri-
cans from casting their ballots, and
how some have used their office to side
with special interests over the public
interest.
This legislation is about finally fix-
ing our broken democracy, including
modernizing and securing our election
system. We care so much about this
that the For the People Act is literally
our top priority. That is why it is H.R.
1.
Now, my Republican friends are talk-
ing about process like it is something
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.017 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2384 March 6, 2019
to be ashamed of. Are they kidding? I
mean, these are crocodile tears. When
they were in charge at the last Con-
gress, their priority, their H.R. 1, was a
tax cut for the superrich. Ours is lit-
erally a bill for the people.
And their H.R. 1, by the way, as you
can see from this chart, had zero hear-
ings. None. Our H.R. 1 had five.
Our H.R. 1 had 15 hours of hearings.
Do you know how many hours of hear-
ings their H.R. 1 had? Zero, a big fat
zero. No hearings at all.
We had expert witnesses come to tes-
tify and give their input, pro and con.
They had none when they did H.R. 1.
Our bill, as we have a structured
rule, we have made over 70 amend-
ments in order. When they had their
H.R. 1 bill to help the superrich, do you
know how many amendments they
made in order? Zero. None. A big fat
closed rule.
The cost of our legislation to kind of
cleanup our democracy is zero. Do you
know how much theirs was? At least
$1.5 trillion.
Mr. Speaker, what we are doing here
is how the legislative process is sup-
posed to work. And imagine what we
could achieve once we get special inter-
ests out of the way, whether it is low-
ering the cost of prescription drugs or
strengthening our healthcare system
or passing sensible gun safety legisla-
tion or protecting the Dreamers.
This is about ensuring that our elec-
tions actually reflect the Constitution
my friends on the other side of the
aisle so often talk about. The Preamble
does not begin with ‘‘We, the corpora-
tions’’ or ‘‘We, the special interests.’’
It says, ‘‘We, the People.’’
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to join with the majority in
supporting this rule and the underlying
legislation so we can finally put our
government back in the hands of the
people.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. JORDAN), my good friend and dis-
tinguished Republican ranking member
on the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the gentleman for yielding and
thank him for his service on the impor-
tant Rules Committee as our ranking
member and for his service in Congress
and on that particular committee.
Much of this grab bag of Democratic
party favors in this bill are entirely
unrelated to each other. How, for ex-
ample, does imposing unfunded Federal
mandates on State administration of
elections relate to mandating the
President divest from business hold-
ings?
The House Administration Com-
mittee is the only committee to mark
up this legislation. However, House Ad-
ministration only marked up the por-
tions of the bill that were in their ju-
risdiction.
The amendment in the nature of the
substitute was 447 pages; the Rules
print was 622 pages.
The Committee on Oversight and Re-
form had substantial jurisdiction over
this legislation. We sent a letter to the
chairman asking for a markup. We got
a letter back from him saying we
would do that after the vote on the
bill. Now, how the heck does that
work? How the heck does that work?
So this needs to slow down. I think
the underlying legislation is wrong for
the country. The idea that every single
taxpayer is now going to have to fi-
nance public campaigns, finance elec-
tion campaigns—just what the voters
wanted, just what they need. The very
people who are in this swamp, you now
have to pay for them to get reelected
to stay in this swamp.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentleman from Ohio an additional 15
seconds.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, I urge
that we oppose the rule. If the rule
does pass, I would certainly urge that
we oppose the legislation as well.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. DOGGETT).
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, Texas is
ground zero for voter suppression.
Texas Republicans enacted the most
stringent voter ID law in the country.
They slashed communities across our
State through partisan gerry-
mandering. And now, this year, in what
a Federal court has just described as a
‘‘ham-handed move’’ which ‘‘exempli-
fies the power of government to strike
fear and anxiety and to intimidate the
least powerful among us,’’ the Abbott
administration has initiated a massive
voter purge by making the false claim
that tens of thousands of people have
voted illegally in our State.
Our State has a problem. It is not too
many people voting illegally; it is too
few people voting at all. The difference
that you see in this debate is that we
believe elections should be won for one
party or the other based on turning out
the voters, and too often, our Repub-
lican colleagues believe they are won
by throwing out the voters.
I believe that the important reform
that we are considering today will re-
place these purges with the urge to
have voters participate by removing
the many obstacles that stand in their
way.
It makes the right to vote more than
a paper guarantee. It makes it a reality
by allowing people to know their own
power, to shape our democracy, and
hold every public official accountable.
‘‘For the People’’ means stopping the
steady Trump erosion of our democ-
racy by empowering the people to
make their voices heard.
I am so pleased that this legislation
includes a provision that I authored to
ensure that we seek the business tax
returns, as well as the personal indi-
vidual returns, of candidates for Presi-
dent.
Now, this particular amendment is
directed not specifically at Mr. Trump,
but his conduct underscores why we
must require it. He had his personal
law firm review his tax returns, and
they awarded him an all-clear from any
Russian connection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentleman from Texas an addi-
tional 1 minute.
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, they
noted that he was the sole or principal
owner of 500 separate business entities
that stretched from Azerbaijan to
Miami, and they gave him an all-clear,
upon which he asked us to rely without
noting that the same firm had proudly
boasted that it was ‘‘the Russia law
firm of the year.’’
Some of us believe we need a little
more credible source to review his con-
duct. But not just review his conduct,
that of anyone, for either party, who
aspires to be the most powerful person
in the entire world.
Even President Nixon invited the
Joint Committee on Taxation to re-
view his tax returns, explaining that
the people have got to know whether
their President is a crook—something
very relevant to our times. Candidates
who cannot meet the very low Richard
Nixon standard have no right to our
highest office.
If left untouchable and unreachable,
without exposure to sunlight, we will
find business tax returns hide the dark-
est secrets. It is good that we have a
strong act demanding disclosure of
those returns.
b 1300
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. BURGESS), my good friend, fellow
member of the Rules Committee, and
classmate.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, a little over 2 years ago,
President Trump stood on the west
front of this Capitol and pledged to
dedicate his administration to taking
care of the forgotten men and women
of this country. This bill does not take
seriously the plight of those forgotten
men and women. It does take seriously
the plight of protecting Democratic in-
cumbents and candidates.
This bill can’t become law. It is never
going to pass in the Senate. It is never
going to be signed by the President.
But it is important to talk about it be-
cause it reveals the agenda of the
Democratic majority here in the House
of Representatives.
This bill, things like the Green New
Deal, things like a massive single-
payer healthcare system, and it is pret-
ty clear that Democrats don’t care
about the economy. They don’t care
about the middle class. Every election
I have been in, people talk about re-
building the middle class.
My gosh, Donald Trump has rebuilt
the middle class, but you don’t care
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.019 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2385
March 6, 2019
about that. You don’t care about jobs.
You don’t care about what people earn
in those jobs, otherwise you wouldn’t
be opening the borders the way you
are. You care about your own power.
You care about maintaining your own
power. It is our job to notify and mag-
nify what is going on with the Demo-
cratic leadership of this House of Rep-
resentatives. That is why I am speak-
ing out about it today.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. RASKIN), a distinguished
member of the Rules Committee.
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the gentlewoman for yielding me
the time.
Our friends across the aisle are noth-
ing if not courageous. They have got
the brazen temerity to raise the ques-
tion of process after running the most
closed Congress in the history of the
United States of America; the most
closed House of Representatives that
anyone has ever seen.
Let’s compare their H.R. 1 when they
got started with our H.R. 1. Well,
their’s was filed, marked up, and
passed in 2 weeks with no hearings, no
amendments made in order, and no ex-
pert testimony at all.
Our H.R. 1 was filed on the first day
of the new Congress for all of the pub-
lic to read. There have been hearings in
five different committees with over 15
hours of expert testimony, culminating
in a full committee markup in House
Administration. Sixty days later, we
are now on the floor for consideration
in an open and transparent way.
You would think they would have the
decency not to raise the question of
process after running the House of Rep-
resentatives like King Kong over the
last 2 years. But the people who ran it
like King Kong now want to turn it
into a Quaker meeting house somehow.
They should be thanking us for the
openness of our proceedings.
Their H.R. 1 blew a $1.5 trillion hole
in the deficit, a staggering and unprec-
edented assault on the fiscal integrity
of the United States of America, to
shower tax cuts on the wealthy and
well-connected.
Our H.R. 1 is an effort to reclaim our
democracy from the wealthy and well-
connected people who were the bene-
ficiaries of their H.R. 1 by creating a
21st century campaign finance system
that responds to the people.
On the substance of the matter, it is
amazing to me that my colleagues
raise the question of the swamp. They
got elected 2.5 years ago campaigning
against the swamp. It was a great slo-
gan they borrowed from NANCY PELOSI.
They moved to Washington. They
moved into the swamp. They built a
hotel on it, and they have turned the
Government of the United States into
a money-making operation for the
President, and the President’s family,
and the President’s friends and busi-
ness associates.
Now, what are we doing in H.R. 1? We
are trying to reclaim American democ-
racy. This legislation is anti-gerry-
mandering legislation. This legislation
says that every State in the Union will
have to have an independent redis-
tricting commission. No politicians in-
volved.
They want the politicians to be in-
volved. Amazingly, they embrace the
title of being the gerrymander party.
They want to keep gerrymandering be-
cause that is how they maintain their
stranglehold on political power.
The whole purpose of H.R. 1 is to lib-
erate us from the gerrymandering of
our elections. That is why we start
with independent redistricting com-
missions. We move to publicly financed
elections, because either the big,
wealthy, special interests are going to
own the elections, or else the people
are going to own them through a small,
donor-leveraged system. And that is
what we are doing. We have got ethics
reform in this legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
an additional 15 seconds to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I encour-
age, everyone to actually read the
terms of this landmark reform legisla-
tion, which insists upon ethics reform
at the Supreme Court, ethics reform in
the executive branch, empowering the
Office of Government Ethics to have
real subpoena power, and to actually be
able to ferret out the corruption which
is engulfing the Trump administration
today, and to prevent corruption in the
future.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS), my friend and the ranking Re-
publican Member on the House Admin-
istration Committee.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, it is great to be here and fol-
low my colleague on the House Admin-
istration Committee, the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. RASKIN).
Obviously, as you will hear over the
next 1 minute and 50 seconds, we dis-
agree. This bill was rushed. This bill
does not live up to the promises that
the Democratic majority said they
were going to do when they ran the
House and how open, how bipartisan,
and how transparent they were sup-
posed to be.
H.R. 1 means this is the Democrat
majority’s priority. This bill was intro-
duced on January 3, and at a press con-
ference introducing this bill, many dif-
ferent outside, special interest groups
were noted for having helped craft this
piece of legislation.
It was 571 pages. It has turned into
622 pages. It has turned into 72 amend-
ments that were ruled in order.
Now, let’s take a step back. Ten com-
mittees of this House had jurisdiction
within this bill. One committee, the
smallest committee in the House of
Representatives, the House Adminis-
tration Committee is the only one to
mark this bill up.
That is not regular order. That is not
an open process. And, frankly, it is a
process that the American people
should demand be much different.
We Republicans were not consulted
during the drafting of this piece of leg-
islation. We Republicans during the
only markup that lasted 5 hours, of-
fered 28 amendments that would have
made this bill better, and not a single
one was passed. All failed on a party-
line vote.
That is not bipartisanship. That is
not openness. That is not a process
that is inclusive, and, frankly, the
American people should be very pet-
rified what this bill will do. It is not a
bill that responds to people, as my col-
league, Mr. RASKIN, just mentioned.
This is a bill that is going to cost the
American taxpayers billions of dollars,
creating a mandatory program that is
going to line the campaign coffers of
every single Member of Congress with
government money.
That is not what the American tax-
payers are wanting. That is not what
this institution should be doing. We
want every single person in this coun-
try to be able to cast their vote and
make sure that they have the right to
do it, the ability to do it, and to ensure
that that vote is protected. This bill
does nothing to make sure that hap-
pens.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN).
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I am
confused when I listen to the gen-
tleman from Illinois when he com-
plains about process. He complains
that we have over 70 amendments in
order, as if that were a bad thing.
We think that is a good thing. And
when they did their H.R. 1, which was
a big, fat giveaway to big corporate
special interests in this country, they
had no amendments. They had no hear-
ings in any committees.
The House Administration Com-
mittee happens to be the main com-
mittee of jurisdiction, and they did a
hearing and a markup. So did the other
committees. They all did hearings. I
don’t understand what the problem is.
The problem is, you don’t like this
bill because it undercuts your strangle-
hold on the political system where all
of the big money, corporate special in-
terests can basically get their way
with the Republican majority. Enough.
People, whether they are Democrats,
Republicans, or Independents, have had
enough of this corrupt political system
that my Republican friends have em-
braced. We are sick of it. They are sick
of it. We are going to change it and it
begins here today with passing H.R. 1.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
both side of the aisle: stand with us,
clean up our political system and sup-
port H.R. 1.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Ari-
zona (Mrs. LESKO), my good friend and
fellow member of the Rules Com-
mittee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.021 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2386 March 6, 2019
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my good friend, Mr. COLE, the ranking
member of the Rules Committee, for
yielding me time to speak on this most
important issue.
Mr. Speaker, I tell those of you who
are here today and throughout Amer-
ica, this is a terrible bill. I have to tell
you, the more that I read about it, the
more that I study about it, the worse I
think that it is.
First of all, it is a total overreach of
the Federal Government into States’
rights. In this bill, the majority didn’t
even consult with the secretaries of
States and the election officials
throughout the entire country to see if
they even liked it. And so you are man-
dating to the States how they should
run their elections.
Not only that, it is mandating to the
States how they should run redis-
tricting. Now, in the State of Arizona,
the voters of Arizona set up a redis-
tricting commission and determined
how it should be run. But in this bill it
says, no, no, it shouldn’t be up to the
State. It shouldn’t be up to the voters.
We know better here in Washington,
D.C. how to do your business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 15 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Arizona.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, the worst
part is that it subsidizes politicians
with public money, a 6-to-1 matching
ratio giving millions, billions more dol-
lars to candidates. My constituents
don’t want to see any more of those TV
commercials at all; no more signs; no
more robocalls. This bill would add
more money to those nasty things.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. MCHENRY), the distin-
guished Republican ranking member on
the Financial Services Committee.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the Republican leader on the Rules
Committee for yielding.
It is unfortunate we are here today to
debate a bill like this. This bill is noth-
ing more than a partisan power grab.
That is the sum and substance of what
has been offered here as H.R. 1.
This is about the priorities of Demo-
crats in the House, and the priorities of
Democrats in the House is to change
our election laws in such a way as to
benefit their party and hurt the Amer-
ican voters and their will at the ballot
box. That is the deep problem here
with H.R. 1.
This is a partisan power grab by one
party to seize power by manipulating
our laws to get an outcome counter to
the will of the people.
It is not about fairness. It is just the
opposite. This is a problem, the process
that the Democrats went through, the
majority went through for this bill. We
had one markup in one committee even
though we had multiple committees,
including the House Financial Services
Committee. That is how big this bill is.
It had multiple committees of jurisdic-
tion that were supposed to have mark-
ups on this, and they did not go
through that full process.
This bill, at the end of the day, seeks
to limit free speech. It uses taxpayer
dollars to fund partisan campaign ef-
forts, and mandates outcomes designed
to get more Democrats into power.
This is not about fairness. It is just
the opposite. Let’s vote against this
rule, and let’s vote down this bad bill.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. ESHOO).
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I can’t believe what I
am hearing from my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle.
Against higher ethics in Congress,
they are, what, accepting any kind of
corruption in this institution and what
corrupts our democracy? You are for
gerrymandering? You want dark
money to continue?
This is absurd. This is about
strengthening our democracy. This
should have 435 votes. I am so proud
that two of my bills have been incor-
porated into H.R. 1; one is that we have
a national holiday for our national
elections. People shouldn’t have to
choose between their job or their fami-
lies. They should be able to go and
vote.
b 1315
Presidents and all Presidential can-
didates should be mandated to put out
10 years of their tax returns so that the
American people can vet them in their
own minds to see if they are worthy of
the highest office in the land.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, I will offer an amend-
ment to the rule to add a provision
that bars candidates from receiving
matching funds under this bill unless
that candidate certifies that no tax
lien exists on any property owned by
that candidate by reason of a failure of
the candidate to pay any Federal,
State, or local tax.
Mr. Speaker, the logic of this is sim-
ple. If the majority is going to insist
that millions—really, billions—of Fed-
eral tax dollars should be spent sub-
sidizing campaigns, then the can-
didates should also certify that they
have paid all the taxes due from them.
If a candidate has a tax lien against
them, then they should not receive tax-
payer dollars to subsidize their cam-
paign. This is common sense and sim-
ple fairness.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I urge a
‘‘no’’ vote on the previous question,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, may I
inquire if the gentleman from Okla-
homa has any more speakers.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I am pre-
pared to close.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time to close.
Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to this
rule and the underlying measure. The
majority has brought up a misnamed
bill that instead serves only to pre-
serve its own power. H.R. 1 will create
a taxpayer-funded ATM to waste Fed-
eral dollars on political campaigns.
Let me say that again: to waste Fed-
eral dollars on campaigns.
My friends are worried about the
power of money, but they are injecting
billions of new taxpayer dollars into
this. And not only that, the taxpayer
has no say in where those dollars go.
They don’t get to pick a candidate or
whatever. We are just going to willy-
nilly have their dollars support can-
didates whom they may or may not
agree with.
This does not only apply to Demo-
crats and Republicans. There are fringe
candidates who will get funding under
this, too, candidates, quite frankly,
who will probably embarrass my
friends and ourselves.
So I think this is an enormously mis-
guided idea. It will take over elections
and voter registration from States and
transfer power to Washington.
Let me say that again. My friends
are voting to literally turn over the
State election operations of 50 separate
States and federalize them. They
haven’t talked to very many secre-
taries of state. I think there was only
one who actually was allowed to testify
in opposition to this bill.
Instead, we are going to foist off bil-
lions of dollars in unpaid mandates on
every State in the country so my
friends can continue this misguided ef-
fort to alter the political landscape of
the greatest Republic and democracy
in the world.
This bill will weaken voting systems
and weaken the enforcement mecha-
nism that guards against fraud, and it
will undermine Americans’ funda-
mental First Amendment rights.
Mr. Speaker, I would strongly urge
my friends on the other side to recon-
sider their course of action. This bill is
not going to be heard by the Senate; it
will never be signed by the President of
the United States; and instead of build-
ing a bipartisan coalition for election
and campaign reform, it will
partisanize this process further.
There was and still is an opportunity
to have this bill considered in markups
across every committee of jurisdiction.
Instead, the majority is simply ram-
ming it through, using a committee
where they hold a 2-to-1 majority and
limiting, frankly, the ability of Mem-
bers to participate in the process of
writing the bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.022 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2387
March 6, 2019
We can do better than this, Mr.
Speaker, and we should strive to do
better than this now.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘no’’ on the previous question,
‘‘no’’ on the underlying measure, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, the reforms in H.R. 1,
the For the People Act, will remove
barriers to our democracy that drown
out the voices of too many Americans.
H.R. 1 will put the people back in
charge. These reforms will bring about
systemic change which, in turn, will
lead to policy outcomes that improve
the lives of all Americans.
From lowering the cost of prescrip-
tion drugs to rebuilding our Nation’s
infrastructure to raising wages and
creating better job opportunities, each
of these policies requires the voice of
the people to be fully heard and re-
spected. They all rest on fixing our bro-
ken democracy.
We have heard the call for change
from our friends, neighbors, and con-
stituents. That is how I got here and
how so many of my colleagues did, too.
To those people who voted for such
historic change, know that Democrats
hear you, and we are ready to give you
the government you deserve.
Crossing the Edmund Pettus Bridge
in Selma last weekend was a poignant
reminder that change does not come
quickly, and it certainly does not come
easily. Heroes like Representative
JOHN LEWIS remind us of the sacrifices
that were made in order to preserve
our uniquely American creed: ‘‘of the
people, by the people, for the people.’’
H.R. 1 is the top priority of Demo-
crats because it will strengthen the
very core of our democracy. It is a
mandate with which we were entrusted
by voters this past November, and it is
the first step in restoring faith in our
institutions.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members of
this House to support this rule to show
that you want big money out of poli-
tics. Support this bill to show that you
believe voting should be made easier—
not harder—for eligible voters, and
support this rule to show that you be-
lieve those elected to public positions
deserve to be held to the highest pos-
sible ethical standards.
In the words of our esteemed col-
league, Representative LEWIS: ‘‘The
fight to vote is precious, almost sacred.
It is the most powerful nonviolent tool
or instrument that we have in a demo-
cratic society.’’
To the American people: We hear
you. In the words of the civil rights an-
them, we must keep our eyes on the
prize and hold on to the vision of a
more perfect Union, one in which the
voices of the people are heard and re-
spected. Our Caucus is eager to restore
the promise of our democracy and give
you the government you deserve. That
is why we are urging passage of H.R.
1—‘‘For the People.’’
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the rule and the previous question.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. COLE is as follows:
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 6. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this resolution, the amendment print-
ed in section 7 shall be in order as though
printed as the last amendment in part B of
the report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution if offered by Rep-
resentative Cole of Oklahoma or a designee.
That amendment shall be debatable for 10
minutes equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent.
SEC. 7. The amendment referred to in sec-
tion 6 is as follows:
Page 421, insert after line 11 the following:
‘‘(5) The candidate certifies that no lien ex-
ists on any property of the candidate by rea-
son of a failure of the candidate to pay any
Federal, State, or local tax.’’.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on ordering the previous
question will be followed by 5-minute
votes on:
Adoption of House Resolution 172, if
ordered; and
Approval of the Journal, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 232, nays
191, not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 106]
YEAS—232
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—191
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.024 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2388 March 6, 2019
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—8
Byrne
Carter (TX)
Clark (MA)
Griffith
Horsford
Rutherford
Spano
Walden
b 1351
Mr. KINZINGER, Mrs. HARTZLER,
Ms. GRANGER, and Mr. CRAWFORD
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 106.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUELLAR). The question is on the reso-
lution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 232, nays
192, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 107]
YEAS—232
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—192
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Byrne
Carter (TX)
Clark (MA)
Rutherford
Spano
Trone
Walden
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1400
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington
changed her vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, due to
my attendance at memorial services
following the untimely passing of Den-
nis Richardson, Oregon’s 26th Sec-
retary of State, I was in Oregon and
missed votes. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No.
106 and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 107.
f
RECOGNIZING THE HONORABLE
DON YOUNG AS THE LONGEST-
SERVING REPUBLICAN MEMBER
OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
(Ms. PELOSI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
mark a historic moment in our institu-
tion as DON YOUNG, the dean of the
House, becomes the longest-serving Re-
publican in the House’s history.
Is that a blushing DON YOUNG that we
see behind the beard there?
On behalf of the entire House, Mr.
Speaker, I congratulate Congressman
YOUNG on this honor and on your 46
years of proud service on behalf of the
people of Alaska.
DON YOUNG has served alongside,
from Alaska, six Senators and 11 gov-
ernors of his proud State. Photographs
of eight Presidents signing his bills
into law proudly cover the walls of his
Rayburn office.
Despite the length of time, every sin-
gle day he serves here, it is clear that
DON is passionate about his patriotism
and about working in this institution
to make a difference for America.
As he said upon becoming dean—re-
member we celebrated his becoming
dean not that long ago—he said:
I love this body, I believe in this body, my
heart is in the House.
Just over 2 months ago, DON honored
one of the special traditions of our in-
stitution when he, as dean, adminis-
tered the oath of office to me, a woman
Speaker of the House. That oath began:
‘‘. . . I will support and defend the Con-
stitution of the United States against
all enemies foreign and domestic . . .’’
As DON’s name becomes further
etched in the history of this House, his
caucus and this Congress will look to
him for leadership to protect our Con-
stitution, to defend our institution,
and to drive progress for the American
people.
Just so you know, my colleagues, in
becoming the longest-serving Repub-
lican of the House, DON surpasses the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:32 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.005 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2389
March 6, 2019
record held by the legendary former
Speaker of the House, Joseph Cannon.
Mr. Cannon once observed that, and
this is a quote:
The House is the most peculiar assemblage
in the world, and only a man who has had
long experience there can fully know its id-
iosyncrasies. It is true we engage in fierce
combat, we are often intense partisans,
sometimes we aren’t fair, yet I venture to
say that nowhere else will you find such a
ready appreciation of merit and character.
Joseph Cannon, now surpassed by
DON YOUNG as the longest-serving Re-
publican in the Congress.
DON, thank you for being a leader of
merit and character. Congratulations
to you and your entire family on this
milestone.
Congratulations, DON.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the distin-
guished gentleman from California
(Mr. MCCARTHY), the Republican leader
of the House.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the Speaker for yielding.
I too rise to congratulate Represent-
ative DON YOUNG, the dean of the
House, who today, as stated, becomes
the longest-serving Republican in the
history of Congress and, as the Speaker
noted, has surpassed Joe Cannon.
DON YOUNG doesn’t quote Joe Can-
non, but he reminds me they named a
building after him.
Now, like me, DON was born in Cali-
fornia. He got to know Alaska the way
many of us did, he read Jack London’s
‘‘The Call of the Wild,’’ and he moved
there right when it became a State.
As of today, DON has represented
Alaska for 46 years, over 75 percent of
the entire time it has been a State.
His career is an important reminder
of how young this wonderful experience
we call America truly is.
They lied to me during freshman ori-
entation. They told me nobody had an
assigned seat in this House. That is
how I got to know DON YOUNG. I made
the mistake of coming in and sitting
down right over by that door.
I also learned another valuable les-
son: DON keeps a knife.
Now, DON has been a very effective
Member. He has been chair of the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, chair of
the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure, he has worked with
nine Presidents, nine Speakers, he has
numerous bills on his wall in between
all the animals, but DON was prepared
for this job.
You see, when he was in Alaska, he
was a riverboat captain, he was a
mayor, but he told me the job that pre-
pared him the most to be a Member of
Congress, he taught the fifth grade. I
don’t know how good of a teacher you
were, but I imagine it was good.
But DON has been a mentor to many
of us. You see, you can watch him, how
he carries himself in conference, how
he carries himself on the floor, but the
way that he can mentor all of us is by
the love and respect that he always had
for his spouse. Lula was always next to
him, and Anne is there now.
He has been a Member of Congress,
but he has been a father, and he has
been a very, very great husband.
Mr. Speaker, we all travel far and
wide to be here to represent our con-
stituents, but no one travels further,
no one has the challenge to match DON.
There are times, if the weather re-
quires, he takes a dogsled, and it is no
joking matter. That is his dedication.
DON also makes sure this institution
stays running on time. I noticed that
last vote went a little long. I do like to
monitor the difference when we are in
the minority. On average, the votes
lasted 5 to 10 minutes less when we
were in the majority, not by anything
I did, but by the calls of DON YOUNG.
But on a serious note, Madam Speak-
er, I have always heard that if you find
a job you love, you will not work a day
in your life. It is clear that DON YOUNG
loves what he does, because he loves
this institution and he loves the peo-
ple’s House.
So to DON, we say congratulations on
this incredible accomplishment, some-
thing nobody probably sitting here
today will ever be able to achieve, but
you did it for your passion, you did it
for the love, but more importantly, you
did it for your country.
I thank you.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, as usual,
the distinguished dean is eager to take
to the microphone, but not yet. There
is more to come.
When the distinguished Republican
leader of the House referenced the ani-
mals in your office, the menagerie
there, I was reminded of one of your
ties, and I shared this story with Mem-
bers on the day that you became the
dean of the House, now the longest-
serving Republican today. But I saw
you one day with a tie that really gave
me hope, because it had an owl and an
eagle and a baby seal on it, and I said,
‘‘Oh, Mr. Chairman, I am so happy to
see you paying tribute to these endan-
gered species,’’ to which you said, ‘‘I
call this tie lunch.’’
I knew you were only kidding, right?
So, in any event, we have all had our
stories with the chairman. We all re-
spect and admire him.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER), the distin-
guished Democratic majority leader of
the House for purposes of commenting
on the distinguished dean, the longest-
serving Republican in the House.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the Speaker for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate
DON YOUNG, who the minority leader
and the Speaker have both indicated
loves this House. The minority leader
then added apparently you haven’t
worked a day in your life, at least that
is how I interpreted it, DON. That was
a liberal interpretation, you know, this
side of the aisle. What can I tell you?
We just lost the longest-serving
Member of the House just a few weeks
ago, and as I sat here, I thought, what
a resemblance there is between the
longest-serving Democrat of the House
and the longest-serving Republican of
the House: irascible comes to mind;
caring about this institution comes to
mind; faithful to principle comes to
mind; blunt, speaks truth, not only to
power, but to everybody else as well.
DON YOUNG has made a difference.
DON YOUNG comes from Alaska, as all
of us know, although the Speaker and
the minority leader recognized that he
came from California, but, DON, you
have really made a difference, particu-
larly for your State.
As chairman of Natural Resources,
you were focused like a laser on mak-
ing sure that your State was treated
fairly. I know there are still some
things you didn’t accomplish that you
would like to have accomplished, and
you have much time left to do that,
but the fact is all of us have benefited,
I think, from your honesty, your rec-
ognition of how the House ought to
work, and, yes, your regular order,
which you demanded and didn’t always
get.
Of course, you took that with just
very low-key responses, as I recall,
walking by your seat from time to
time.
b 1415
But DON YOUNG is an institution. DON
YOUNG is an institutionalist. DON
YOUNG is the kind of Member that
makes this House, over the decades,
work as constructively as it can, not as
constructively as it should.
Hopefully, we will follow DON YOUNG
and John Dingell’s example, because
both of them are lions of partisanship,
but both of them were not only willing
but thought it appropriate to work
across the aisle to reach objectives
that they could hold in common.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to thank DON for
his service. DON and I have served to-
gether for 37 years. Between us, we
have a little bit of time on us. I look
forward to serving with him for some
years to come. God bless him and God-
speed.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to yield to the gentleman from
Louisiana (Mr. SCALISE), the distin-
guished Republican whip of the House.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Speaker PELOSI for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, it is really a special
moment for all of us to pay tribute to
DON YOUNG for this great achievement,
being the longest serving Republican in
the House, especially for someone who
loves this institution so much. As we
talked about John Dingell and had the
honor of serving with John Dingell in
the House Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee and seeing his passion, not just
for the issues he believed in, in fighting
for the auto industry and so many
other issues, but for his love of the peo-
ple’s House, DON YOUNG has that same
love. In fact, anybody who knows DON
YOUNG knows that his secrets to lon-
gevity are always speaking his mind,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.032 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2390 March 6, 2019
fighting every day to be a champion for
the great people of Alaska, and always
speaking his mind.
On a somber note, DON started his ca-
reer out of a tragedy. A lot of you re-
member that back in October of 1972,
there was a plane crash in Alaska.
Nicholas Begich and Hale Boggs, who
at the time was the majority leader,
went down in a plane crash. There was
a massive search to try to find the
plane. They never did find that plane.
Ultimately, when they finally recog-
nized that we had lost two great lead-
ers, they had special elections.
I get to serve and actually work
every day in the office that Hale Boggs
once worked in, the same office that
Majority Leader HOYER worked in as
well, and I think about Hale a lot, as
we think about Nicholas Begich as
well. But I know DON was elected in a
special election. That is when he came
to Congress. Somebody else came to
Congress: Hale Boggs’ wife, Lindy
Boggs, who some of you may have
served with. They are probably too
very different personalities, but they
formed a special bond because of the
unique nature in which they came to
Congress. He shared with me some of
those stories.
It just shows you how sometimes our
differences can, ultimately, bring us
together to at least pay tribute not
only to an institution, but to respect
our backgrounds and how we all come
here from different walks of life. Ulti-
mately, it is our desire to serve the
people who we represent.
That is the thing I love the most
about serving with DON YOUNG. It is
that he has such a passion. He fights
for his beliefs, and he works with other
people.
We all know that, for 37 years, one of
his great causes was to open up ANWR.
Finally, we were on the White House
lawn in December 2017 to have that
ceremony and watch DON YOUNG giddy
as a schoolchild as the President was
making that announcement, and then
to see him still this day, and every day,
come to work with the passion of rep-
resenting the great people of Alaska
and continuing to work with all of us
on all the different issues that we come
here to address.
As we celebrate this great achieve-
ment, I think, as we all know, he
comes and sits in that same spot and
he yells ‘‘order,’’ and he yells a few
other things, and he pushes us all to do
our job in a much more efficient way.
But how fitting it is that the United
States’ largest State has such a larger
than life personality as its representa-
tive.
Congratulations, DON. It is an honor
to serve with you.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, it is clear
from listening to the comments of the
bipartisan leadership of the House of
Representatives that, as Speaker, I can
say, on behalf of the entire House of
Representatives: Thank you, DON
YOUNG, and congratulations.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Alaska (Mr. YOUNG), the distin-
guished longest serving Republican in
history in the Congress.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Speaker PELOSI for those kind words,
the kind words of the Republican lead-
ers, and the kind words of all my col-
leagues.
It was mentioned that I love this in-
stitution, and I do because this is the
great United States of America, and we
are representatives of our districts.
The one thing I learned, during my 46
years, is that each one of you represent
your people, and I respect it. I may not
agree with some of the things you
stand for, but I respect that you were
elected by your people.
I had the privilege of traveling a lot,
and I still do, in Members’ districts,
not to campaign against them, but to
find out why and how they are elected
and what they stand for in that com-
munity. This House is the people’s
House.
I have to sort of confess to one thing
that was alluded to by KEVIN. It is a
fact that I was a schoolteacher to fifth
grade students, and it prepared me for
this job. There is some truth in that
because, I have to tell you, I have
timed it as a teacher. The average at-
tention span of a fifth grader is 7 min-
utes, and the average attention span of
most Congressmen is about 41⁄4, because
they are so busy trying to do every-
thing they can, and they are so busy
representing their people.
John Dingell was mentioned. And,
DEBBIE, God bless you for him. He was
one of my dear friends. Everybody says
that, but he was a dear friend.
I met him in 1964 in my hometown of
Fort Yukon. He was on the Fish and
Wildlife Committee. He was 9 years a
Congressman. I met with him and
talked to him about an issue I was in-
terested in.
Of course, when I got elected, he
came to me, and I went to see him. We
had one thing in common: We loved to
hunt. We hunted on weekends, because
we stayed here. We fished on weekends.
And we became dear friends. He is the
strongest, frankly, Congressman I have
ever served with.
We had one thing in common: He re-
spected my beliefs, and I respected his.
I would say, John, this is the right
thing to do. And he would do it.
I think a lot of us here today have to
learn that and quit watching the
media. That person who represents
that district, listen to what they have
to say and support them. That makes
this House work a lot better, frankly,
than it is right now.
This is nothing new. We have to do
this for this country, to retain the con-
trol of the Congress to run this Nation.
If not, we will lose our democracy.
Mr. Speaker, I thank everyone in this
room for recognizing my tenure. I want
to especially thank my wife, Anne, who
is up in the stand. I have been trying to
get the State of Alaska to pay her be-
cause when I lost my dear Lu, I
thought I was going to die. She came
along, picked me up off the ground,
supported me, loved me, cherishes me,
and makes me want to come to work
every day to serve the great State of
Alaska.
Mr. Speaker, I thank everyone. God
bless them, and God bless America.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD). Under guidelines con-
sistently issued by successive Speak-
ers, as recorded in section 956 of the
House Rules and Manual, the Chair is
constrained not to entertain the re-
quest unless it has been cleared by the
bipartisan floor and committee leader-
ships.
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, I urge the Speaker and the
majority leader to immediately sched-
ule a vote on the born-alive bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
FOR THE PEOPLE ACT OF 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and
add extraneous material on H.R. 1, the
For the People Act of 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 172 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 1.
The Chair appoints the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. CUELLAR) to preside
over the Committee of the Whole.
b 1427
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.034 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2391
March 6, 2019
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1) to ex-
pand Americans’ access to the ballot
box, reduce the influence of big money
in politics, and strengthen ethics rules
for public servants, and for other pur-
poses, with Mr. CUELLAR in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall be confined to
the bill and shall not exceed 2 hours
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and the ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on House Admin-
istration.
The gentlewoman from California
(Ms. LOFGREN) and the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. RODNEY DAVIS) each will
control 60 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, H.R. 1 will begin the proc-
ess of returning the government to the
people. Many provisions of H.R. 1 have
been pending and ignored for years in
this House. No more.
b 1430
H.R. 1 has been the subject of hear-
ings in five committees and 15 hours of
testimony from witnesses. Throughout
these hearings, we have heard our Re-
publican friends bemoan a rushed proc-
ess when, in fact, they had 8 years to
consider these proposals but failed to
do so.
Today, we deliver on our promise to
the American people. H.R. 1 is criti-
cally important at this point in our
history.
Trust in government and in many in-
stitutions has eroded because of years
of putting profit before the people and
letting politicians pick their voters.
Dark money has been allowed to poi-
son our system, drowning out the
voices of the very people who we were
sent here to represent.
Access to the ballot box has been im-
peded by arbitrary obstacles that have
made voting a privilege, not a right.
Without trust, our representative
system suffers. Too many Americans
view themselves as shut out from our
democracy. Others cannot participate
because of election administration pro-
cedures that fail to account for how
Americans live and work in the 21st
century.
Some of these barriers make it hard-
er for certain populations, including
communities of color and other under-
represented groups, to vote. This is es-
pecially the case after the Supreme
Court gutted core provisions of the
Voting Rights Act in Shelby County v.
Holder.
Meanwhile, the Supreme Court’s 2010
Citizens United decision has further
empowered wealthy special interests
and ushered in nearly a billion dollars
in money from undisclosed sources,
even though the Court affirmed the im-
portance of disclosure by a vote of 8 to
1.
H.R. 1 reverses course and strength-
ens our democracy and makes it easier
and more convenient for all eligible
Americans to vote. It offers solutions
to the dominance of big money in poli-
tics, and it ensures public officials will
work in the public interest.
One of the things that has been dis-
cussed is the proposal for a freedom
from influence fund that will allow for
small donors to reclaim control of can-
didates through $200 or less donations.
I want to make it clear that no tax-
payer funds are permitted to flow into
this freedom from influence fund. In-
stead, as was approved in our last vote,
a modest additional assessment of 2.75
percent on Federal fines, penalties, and
settlements for certain tax crimes and
corporate malfeasance will be the sole
source of funding for this freedom from
influence fund. In fact, the bad guys
will be funding the clean system.
This bill will lower barriers to voting
for all eligible Americans. It will save
costs, bolster the integrity of election
administration, and, for example, it
will modernize voter registration sys-
tems by enabling automatic voter reg-
istration and same-day voter registra-
tion, taking advantage of technology
to ensure all Americans can register
and update their voter registration sta-
tus online. Automatic voter registra-
tion, alone, may bring up to 50 million
new American citizens onto the rolls
and, therefore, able to vote.
It makes improvements to ensure
ballot access for voters with disabil-
ities as well as our overseas and mili-
tary voters.
It ensures early voting for at least 15
days and will require States to use
voter-verified paper ballots. This is a
commonsense safeguard to cybersecu-
rity threats, especially after the 2016
election showed vulnerabilities in our
system.
H.R. 1 will reform redistricting to en-
sure fairness in the process to guard
against partisanship and respect com-
munities of interest.
This legislation will shine a light on
dark secret money that influences
campaigns and will protect everyone’s
right to know who is influencing their
votes and their views.
As I mentioned earlier, it provides an
alternative voluntary system for can-
didates to finance their campaigns by
empowering small dollar contributors
all without taxpayer money. This will
reduce candidates’ reliance on wealthy
special interests and open the political
process to more people. This will cre-
ate a government for the people.
H.R. 1 will also implement high eth-
ical standards and boost confidence in
self-government.
It has been said that we should not
take these steps, but Article I, Section
4 of the United States Constitution
provides that Congress may, by law,
regulate votes in Federal elections.
It is time that we take this step. De-
mocracy is resilient, but it requires our
continual work to ensure that it lives
up to its promise.
H.R. 1 is a major, comprehensive step
forward, a step that we must take if we
are to be true to our promise of our
representative government.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield myself as much time as I
may consume.
Mr. Chair, I agree with my colleagues
across the aisle that there is a role for
the Federal Government to play in
election infrastructure, campaign fi-
nance disclosure, ballot access trans-
parency, and election security. How-
ever, H.R. 1 was developed to serve the
special interests of Democrats and the
outside organizations that support the
Democratic Party and will not accom-
plish its alleged goal of being for the
people.
The greatest threat to our Nation’s
election system is partisanship, and
that is what we are seeing right here in
H.R. 1. It misuses taxpayer dollars,
takes power away from States to ad-
minister their own elections, and
threatens to limit Americans’ constitu-
tional rights.
H.R. 1 proposes all groups limit free
speech and imposes vague standards
that disadvantage citizens who wish to
advocate on behalf of any public policy
issue.
Every American has a right to sup-
port causes they believe in, and that is
exactly why the American Civil Lib-
erties Union echoes my concerns. The
ACLU said that there are provisions
that unconstitutionally impinge on the
free speech rights of American citizens
and public interest organizations.
When groups that have traditionally
supported the Democratic Party can-
not support H.R. 1, it underscores why
election reform legislation should not
be developed in a partisan manner.
H.R. 1 overreaches our Constitution
by taking power away from States that
decide how their election should be ad-
ministered, States that know their
residents’ election needs much better
than a Federal bureaucracy does.
Congress should be partnering with
States to support them in increasing
voter registration instead of forcing a
federally mandated one-size-fits-all ap-
proach that will be costly and ineffec-
tive.
This bill also fails to include safe-
guards, while implementing new voter
registration and voting practices.
I cannot stress enough that Congress
should absolutely be in favor of in-
creasing access to the polls, but we do
that by adding the necessary checks
and balances to ensure these votes and
that access are protected.
We should allow States to maintain
their own voter rolls in order to proc-
ess voters in a timely manner on elec-
tion day, avoid unfunded mandates,
and manage voter lists to avoid voting
irregularities. A few voting irregular-
ities can change the outcome of a sin-
gle election, especially when you live
in a competitive district like I do.
Every single vote makes a difference
between winning and losing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.036 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2392 March 6, 2019
If we pass new voter registration
practices in H.R. 1 without creating
safeguards to prevent voting irregular-
ities in these practices, we risk taking
away the choice of the American peo-
ple. Simply, another way, H.R. 1 is tak-
ing away the voice of each American
voter.
If we want to increase our election
security, Congress should support
States choosing their own methods and
machines. Multiple points of entry are
more secure than one system. Federal-
izing election security, as this legisla-
tion does, will not protect voters.
When H.R. 1 was introduced, it was
referred to 10 committees in the House.
This bill, which is now over 600 pages,
will now have gone from introduction
to general debate on the floor of the
House with only half of those 10 com-
mittees holding a single hearing, and
only one of those committees holding a
markup.
The Democrats promised greater
transparency in the majority, but we
are not seeing that in their first major
piece of legislation.
We just received the CBO score for
H.R. 1, which egregiously underesti-
mates H.R. 1’s cost to the taxpayers by
conveniently leaving out many of the
legislation’s most expensive provisions.
H.R. 1’s campaign match provision is
what is being left out. CBO said they
needed more time to develop a more
comprehensive score. That was ig-
nored.
Though my Democratic colleagues
may have changed where exactly the
bucket is, they are still using H.R. 1 to
put more money into politicians’ cam-
paigns. H.R. 1 is creating public sub-
sidies through the 6-to-1 government
match program on small dollar cam-
paign contributions of up to $200. For
every $200, the Federal Government,
the taxpayers, will now pay $1,200 to a
politician, to Members of Congress’
campaigns.
While my colleagues across the aisle
now say this will be of no cost to the
taxpayer—as of a new gimmick that
they developed yesterday—I would like
to point out that every single House
Democrat signed on to cosponsor this
legislation before any changes were
made to this provision.
Make no mistake, the new majority
wants to put your hard-earned tax dol-
lars into their own campaigns. While
they may have changed the route to
get there, that is their fundamental
goal with this obvious sham campaign
finance reform. They say they want to
get money out of politics, but they are
using this bill, H.R. 1, to funnel more
in.
Provisions like this do not belong in
any campaign or finance election re-
forms. Election reforms should be bi-
partisan, not serving the interests of
partisan politicians.
As we move forward with the debate
today, I hope my colleagues across the
aisle will thoughtfully reconsider their
eager support of a bill that will harm
the American voter and taxpayer and
not simply vote, as we have seen
throughout this not-open process,
along partisan lines.
Every American’s vote should be
counted and protected.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. NADLER), chairman of the
Judiciary Committee.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Chair, the right to vote has been
called protective of all other rights.
Without it, you can’t protect your
rights. That right has been eroded in
recent years.
We have seen many attempts on the
State and local level to limit the right
to vote for minorities, to close polling
places, to limit the hours of voting, to
put in phony requirements that pre-
vent people from voting.
We must restore, as this bill will do,
the protections of the 1965 Voting
Rights Act that guarantee the right to
vote, that stop local politicians from
choosing their own electorates.
We must eliminate the poison of
large campaign contributions from hid-
den money. The dominance in our poli-
tics of large campaign contributions
when someone anonymously can give
$20,000 to $30,000—or millions of dol-
lars—to various PACs which then fun-
nel the money to politicians is subver-
sive of our democracy.
It is a metastasized cancer on our de-
mocracy. And if we don’t excise this
cancer through this bill, historians will
eventually write, I fear, that the Amer-
ican Republic, like the Roman Repub-
lic, had a good 250-year run with de-
mocracy but then evolved into an oli-
garchy, which is the direction we are
headed in.
We must ban those huge campaign
contributions, substitute a system of
small contributions by ordinary people
that will be matched so that the pub-
lic, not the plutocrats, will dominate
our politics and control our legislation.
We should restore our right to vote
for people who committed crimes long
ago and have long since paid their
debts to society.
These restrictions and ex-felons vot-
ing were put in specifically to guar-
antee white supremacy. Read the de-
bates in the various State conventions
in the 1900s and 1910.
This bill will help strengthen Ameri-
cans’ faith in their government institu-
tions and ensure that everyone has a
voice in determining how our country
is governed.
Mr. Chair, I urge all of my colleagues
to support this landmark legislation.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
WALKER), my colleague, good friend,
and member on the House Administra-
tion Committee.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Chair, I thank the
ranking member for his work.
Mr. Chair, I rise today in opposition
to H.R. 1. While my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle have deemed this
bill to be ‘‘for the people,’’ a more
proper characterization would be ‘‘for
the politicians.’’
Voting is a foundational right for all
Americans, and the egregious provi-
sions of this bill would jeopardize our
freedoms. In particular, this legislation
fails to address the issue of ballot har-
vesting.
As we have seen in California and my
own State of North Carolina, ballot
harvesting has created troubling irreg-
ularities in several elections due to the
lack of oversight and opportunities for
voter manipulation and intimidation.
Ballot harvesting allows political
operatives with a partisan agenda to
get involved in the collection and sub-
mission of votes, creating an oppor-
tunity for organizations or campaign
workers to exploit voters and violate
our fundamental rights.
Americans should have a choice on
how they want to vote, who they want
to support, and if they want to vote at
all.
b 1445
Not only would H.R. 1 manipulate the
voting process, but it would also re-
strict our rights as Americans to do-
nate to the campaigns of our choosing
and would allow the Federal Govern-
ment to use our taxpayer dollars to
subsidize elections.
Aside from the proposed matching
donations with a 6-to-1 ratio, H.R. 1
would create a pilot program to pro-
vide $25 vouchers for eligible voters. In
practice, that means taxpayer money
from hardworking Americans could be
used to finance campaigns for can-
didates they do not support.
If this doesn’t limit free speech
enough, another provision of the bill
politicizes the Federal Election Com-
mission by reducing membership from
six to five. This makes a traditionally
nonpartisan organization political, giv-
ing one party the power to make par-
tisan decisions about election commu-
nications.
With the vague standards created by
H.R. 1, this would affect any group
wishing to advocate on behalf of any
legislative issue.
In short, this legislation violates the
First Amendment. Even the ACLU has
problems with it. It creates an avenue
for fraud and subjects voters to poten-
tial exploitation.
While my colleagues across the aisle
will support this bill to subsidize their
own elections and keep their party in
the majority, I will stand up for our
rights as Americans and vote against
one of the worst bills ever, this abhor-
rent assault on our election system.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. PRICE), a pioneer and
leader in clean government.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I thank my colleague and I
rise in strong support of H.R. 1. It is a
comprehensive, once-in-a-generation
blueprint for reforming our democratic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.038 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2393
March 6, 2019
system, ranging from gerrymandering
to voter suppression, and voting rights
to the dominance of unaccountable big
money in our politics. It is an urgent
priority rightly numbered H.R. 1, and
basic to everything else we need to do.
If our democracy doesn’t work, nothing
works.
It represents a culmination of issues
I have worked on during my entire
time in Congress, particularly, the way
moneyed interests can corrupt our pol-
itics and how they drown out the
voices of everyone else.
The For the People Act will mod-
ernize our Presidential public financ-
ing system. It will establish a new pub-
lic matching system for congressional
races to empower small donors. It will
crack down on improper super-PAC co-
ordination with campaigns.
H.R. 1 also includes my legislation to
repeal the IRS dark-money rule, and it
expands my original stand-by-your-ad
provision to require corporations and
other groups to disclose the top funders
when they run political ads over the
air or on the internet.
These reforms will empower Amer-
ican voters and encourage more diverse
candidates to run for office, and will
help break the stranglehold of big
money on our politics.
Let’s deliver on the promises we have
made to restore integrity, account-
ability, and transparency to our de-
mocracy. I urge my colleagues to vote
‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 1.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. DUN-
CAN), my good friend.
Mr. DUNCAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise to
strongly oppose H.R. 1. This is an egre-
gious assault on the fundamental
rights and freedoms of Americans.
H.R. 1, really, is a fight over liberty.
This is a fight over the constitutional
duties and roles of the States, one of
which being the role in conducting
elections.
Article I, section 4 says clearly, ‘‘The
times, places, and manner of holding
elections for Senators and Representa-
tives, shall be prescribed in each State
by the legislature thereof.’’
Having individual States conduct
elections has been vital to preserving
the integrity and security of elections
across the country. But this debate
really is about the Democrats’ desire
to centralize power here in one place,
Washington, D.C.
Instead of actively giving more power
to Washington bureaucrats, we should
be divesting power away from the ex-
pansive Federal Government, and re-
serving that power for the States, be-
cause that is the way the Founding Fa-
thers designed our Republic.
But, sadly, this bill is nothing but a
top-down power grab by the Democrats
using the Federal Government to
micromanage the electoral process, im-
pose limits on free speech, and further
impose unconstitutional mandates.
Mr. Chair, this is not the liberty our
Founders intended. In fact, this is a
dangerous proposal that centralizes
power, enhances Big Government in
Washington, and takes decisionmaking
power out of the hands of the States
and the people.
Let’s ask ourselves: Is this the proper
and constitutional role of the Federal
Government? And the answer to that
question is, no. H.R. 1 encroaches on
the liberties and powers of the Con-
stitution reserved for the States and
the people, and I oppose this type of
power grab. I think that is what so in-
furiates so many Americans.
We take an oath here to uphold and
defend the Constitution of the United
States. We shouldn’t be passing bills
like H.R. 1. We should be passing bills
that preserve the liberty and freedom
enshrined in the Constitution.
I encourage all Members to ada-
mantly oppose this legislation, because
if you take your oath seriously—be-
cause we aren’t voting for a fancy title
of a bill, when you actually read the
language of this legislation, you see
that it undermines the Constitution
and the rights of every single American
across the country, under the guise of
making elections safer.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I have to note that the last speaker
failed to read the entire section. Arti-
cle I, section 4 says: ‘‘The times, places
and manner of holding elections for
Senators and Representatives, shall be
prescribed in each State by the legisla-
ture thereof;’’ as was mentioned. And
it then goes on to say, ‘‘but the Con-
gress may at any time by law make or
alter such regulations. . . . ‘’ And that
is what we are doing here.
Why? Because we have seen in States
throughout the country efforts to pre-
vent people from voting in Federal
elections. And so a voter in one State
is treated differently than in another
State, and that is what we are going to
change with H.R. 1.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI).
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Mr. Chair, I
rise today in support of the For the
People Act, which includes language
from my legislation with Senator CORY
BOOKER, the Help Students Vote Act.
Young Americans vote at the lowest
rates of any age group, and a key fac-
tor in that are the challenges of voting
on a new college campus far away from
home. My legislation has three provi-
sions to address this challenge.
First, it requires every college and
university to email timely voter reg-
istration information to all of its stu-
dents.
Second, it requires every school to
designate a campus vote coordinator to
answer students’ questions about vot-
ing.
Third, it authorizes grants to col-
leges and universities that take exem-
plary action to promote civic engage-
ment.
I want to thank the many organiza-
tions supporting the legislation, in-
cluding Young Invincibles, and the
Students Learn Students Vote Coali-
tion.
By helping students register and
vote, we can ensure our government
better responds to the people it serves,
while encouraging our next generation
of leaders.
Mr. Chair, I strongly urge my col-
leagues to support this measure.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I am very privileged to
stand here with somebody who grew up
in the same rural county as I did, in
Christian County, Illinois.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. BUCSHON),
my good friend.
Mr. BUCSHON. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today in opposition to H.R. 1, the Dem-
ocrat politician protection act. This
legislation is a radical attempt to hi-
jack our free and fair election system,
and limit the voices of the American
people.
For example, in H.R. 1, Democrats
are proposing the public financing of
elections which would force Americans’
hard-earned tax dollars to be sub-
sidizing political campaigns they do
not support, limiting constitutionally
guaranteed freedoms of speech and as-
sociation.
Furthermore, this one-size-fits-all
Federal takeover of the election proc-
ess will open the door for voting irreg-
ularities through Federal mandates on
voter registration and voting practices
that will be forced on the States—a
massive Federal power grab.
Last time I checked, voting happens
at the State level, and is the right and
responsibility of the State and local
governments.
They say this only affects Federal
elections, but does anyone really be-
lieve that the States will have two sep-
arate systems? I am in full support of
increasing voter registration participa-
tion in our election process. Unfortu-
nately, this legislation goes far beyond
increasing voter participation, and, in-
stead, is a misguided attempt to rig
our Nation’s electoral systems for the
benefit of the Democratic Party by
telling Americans, once again, that the
Federal Government and Washington
bureaucrats know best.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
oppose this liberty- and freedom-lim-
iting legislation.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Mrs. DAVIS), a valued Mem-
ber of the House Administration Com-
mittee.
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Chair-
man, this bill was not rushed. It is long
overdue. I recently joined our col-
league and civil rights icon, Congress-
man JOHN LEWIS, on the Edmund
Pettus Bridge in Selma, commemo-
rating the march and the fight for the
right to vote.
We can never forget how many people
have risked and lost their lives for that
right. Fifty-four years later, our elec-
tion system is still stacked against
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.040 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2394 March 6, 2019
many Americans. Some eligible voters
are still prohibited from voting by mail
and can’t make it to the polls.
Some eligible voters have still been
unfairly purged from the rolls, and
some communities still do not have
enough polling locations, leading to
long lines.
We need justice. We need to expand
the fixes that have been proven to
work in so many of our States, and
that is exactly what H.R. 1 does.
If we are for the people, not just the
ones we think will vote for us, then we
should be for this bill.
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I love this country. I love
this country for what it is. I love this
country for the principles and the ideas
on which it was founded. America is
not a place. It is not a government. It
is not a people. It is an idea.
One of the ideas of our Founders is
that the government is most effective
when it is local, the closest to the peo-
ple.
I want to correct something that I
think my colleagues on the other side
may not understand or are just not pre-
senting to the American people. Yes,
the Constitution gives Congress the
ability at times to come in and modify
election law, but this bill is so sweep-
ing, it strips the States of their con-
stitutional authority that was given to
them by the Constitution by elimi-
nating their influence in elections alto-
gether.
The true intention of the Founders
when it came to this provision in the
Constitution was predominantly to en-
sure that the States could not render
the Congress ineffective by refusing to
hold elections so they would ensure
that we always have a quorum here.
That was the purpose of that. We
need to go back to the original intent
of the Founders when they added this
in the Constitution.
Mr. Chairman, if you read the
writings of the Founding Fathers, this
is ultimately clear. I want to read to
you something that James Madison
said regarding the States’ authority,
especially when it comes to elections.
He said, ‘‘The powers delegated by the
proposed Constitution to the Federal
Government are few and defined. Those
which are to remain in the State gov-
ernments are numerous and indefinite.
. . . The powers reserved to the several
States will extend to all the objects
which in the ordinary course of affairs,
concern the lives and liberties, and
properties of the people, and the inter-
nal order, improvement and prosperity
of the State.
They could not be clearer that the
States should be the ones setting the
laws regarding elections. This would
totally undermine that.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
WOODALL), my good friend and col-
league.
b 1500
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Chairman, I
thank my friend from Georgia for
yielding me the time.
It is tough to get up and speak after
the Federalist Papers have been ref-
erenced because they do go to the core
of who we are. So does election integ-
rity.
I look around, and I see my friends
from the other side of the aisle, along
with friends on my side of the aisle,
and election integrity is a shared
value. So you would think that the so-
lution to election integrity challenges
would be a shared solution.
But if I go to my friends on the Re-
publican side of the House Administra-
tion Committee, the only one of the 10
committees this bill was referred to
that marked it up, I will find that not
one Republican was consulted on the
drafting of this language.
Mr. Chairman, you have heard my
colleagues talk about the wholesale
changes to election law—State election
law—across this country. You would
think, Mr. Chairman, that we would
have talked to all 50 secretaries of
state. That wouldn’t be true.
Maybe you would think we would
have consulted with 25 secretaries of
state. It wouldn’t be true. What would
be true is, in the one committee that
had the one markup on this bill, we
consulted with one State election offi-
cial.
Mr. Chairman, this is an opportunity
for us to do something together. We
can either take advantage of that op-
portunity or we can poison the well.
How in the world can we promise the
American people election integrity
when one side is writing the rules?
It should be instructive to us all the
way this bill has come to the floor, and
it is yet another, Mr. Chairman, in a
string of missed opportunities that we
have had. I will give you just one ex-
ample.
I made a motion last night in the
Rules Committee to only bring this bill
to the floor as it was marked up in
committee. We have talked about a bill
that is going to guarantee voter trans-
parency. We don’t even have legislative
transparency on this bill. We couldn’t
get the bill brought to the floor from
the one of the 10 committees that
marked it up. We had manager’s
amendments added. We had the bill not
as reported.
I offered another amendment last
night. If it is so important that we leg-
islate for the first time in American
history that tax returns be released by
elected officials—this bill includes let’s
release them at the Presidential level
and let’s release them at the Vice Pres-
idential level—I offered an amendment
to the rule to allow a vote on whether
or not they should be considered at
your level, Mr. Chairman. That amend-
ment was denied on a partisan line.
Let’s not make this a partisan issue;
it is an American issue.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE), who is my
colleague on the Judiciary Committee.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentlewoman for her leader-
ship and Mr. SARBANES for his leader-
ship and for allowing us to tell our sto-
ries. Let me tell you the story of
Texas.
In 2017, right before a bond election
in my district and surrounding areas,
4,000 people were taken off the voting
rolls. In 2018, the Secretary of State’s
Office purged people off the voting rolls
with absolutely no understanding and
no notice.
H.R. 1 expands the access to the bal-
lot box by creating voluntary auto-
matic voter registration access across
the country, ensuring that the rights of
individuals who have completed felony
sentences—family members, your
neighbors who have done their time—
have the ability to register as well, and
expanding early voting. Be reminded of
the 2000 election when those who had
done their time, were citizens, went to
the voting poll, and they were told: Oh,
you cannot vote.
It ends partisan gerrymandering, but
in particular, it focuses on opportuni-
ties for voting. So I am here to say
those provisions are crucial to pro-
viding the American public its con-
stitutional right to vote, and we should
support that right.
Mr. Chair, I rise today in strong support of
H.R. 1, The ‘‘For the People Act of 2019,’’
which expands access to the ballot box, re-
duces the influence of big money in politics,
and strengthens ethics rules for public serv-
ants.
I am proud to be one of 226, co-sponsors,
and one of the original cosponsors, of H.R. 1,
which will increase public confidence in our
democracy by reducing the role of money in
politics, restoring ethical standards and integ-
rity to government, and strengthening laws to
protect voting.
Specifically, the For the People Act will:
1. Make it easier, not harder, to vote by im-
plementing automatic voter registration, requir-
ing early voting and vote by mail, committing
Congress to reauthorizing the Voting Rights
Act and ensuring the integrity of our elections
by modernizing and strengthening our voting
systems and ending partisan redistricting.
2. Reform the campaign finance system by
requiring all political organizations to disclose
large donors, updating political advertisement
laws for the digital age, establishing a public
matching system for citizen-owned elections,
and revamping the Federal Election Commis-
sion to ensure there’s a cop on the campaign
finance beat; and
3. Strengthen ethics laws to ensure that
public officials work in the public interest by
extending conflict of interest laws to the Presi-
dent and Vice President; requiring the release
of their tax returns; closing loopholes that
allow former members of Congress to avoid
cooling-off periods for lobbying; closing the re-
volving door between industry and the federal
government; and establishing a code of con-
duct for the Supreme Court.
H.R. 1 expands access to the ballot box by
taking aim at institutional barriers to voting.
This bill ensures that individuals who have
completed felony sentences have their full
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.042 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2395
March 6, 2019
rights restored and expands early voting and
simplify absentee voting; and modernize the
U.S. voting system.
Mr. Chair, this legislation and this hearing is
particularly timely because more than half a
century after the passage of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965, we are still discussing voter sup-
pression—something which should be a by-
gone relic of the past, but yet continues to dis-
enfranchise racial minorities, immigrants,
women, and young people.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was a water-
shed moment for the Civil Rights Movement—
it liberated communities of color from legal re-
strictions barring them from exercising the fun-
damental right to civic engagement and polit-
ical representation.
But uncaged by Supreme Court’s infamous
2013 decision in Shelby County v. Holder, 570
U.S. 529 (2013), which neutered the
preclearance provision of the Voting Rights
Act, 14 states, including my state of Texas,
took extreme measures to enforce new voting
restrictions before the 2016 presidential elec-
tion.
It is not a coincidence that many of these
same states have experienced increasing
numbers of black and Hispanic voters in re-
cent elections.
If not for invidious, state-sponsored voter
suppression policies like discriminatory voter
ID laws, reduced early voting periods, and
voter intimidation tactics that directly or indi-
rectly target racial minorities, the 2016 presi-
dential election might have had a drastically
different outcome.
Mr. Chair, H.R. 1 must be passed because
many of the civil rights that I fought for as a
student and young lawyer have been under-
mined or been rolled back by reactionary
forces in recent years.
To add insult to injury, the Trump Adminis-
tration issued an Executive Order establishing
a so-called ‘‘Election Integrity’’ Commission to
investigate not voter suppression, but so-
called ‘‘voter fraud’’ in the 2016 election.
Trump and his followers have been unceas-
ing in their efforts to perpetuate the myth of
voter fraud, but it remains just that: a myth.
Between 2000 and 2014, there were 35
credible allegations of voter fraud out of more
than 834 million ballots cast—that is less than
1 in 28 million votes!
An extensive study by social scientists at
Dartmouth College uncovered no evidence to
support Trump’s hysterical and outrageous al-
legations of widespread voter fraud ‘‘rigging’’
the 2016 election.
Just for the record, Mr. Chair, the popular
vote of the 2016 presidential election was:
Hillary Clinton, 65,853,516
Donald Trump, 62,884,824
Trump’s deficit of 2.9 million was the largest
of any Electoral College winner in history by a
massive margin, and despite the allegations of
the current Administration, there have been
only 4 documented cases of voter fraud in the
2016 election.
The Voter Fraud Commission, like many of
Trump’s business schemes, was a massive
scam built on countless lies that do not hold
up to any level of scrutiny.
As Members of Congress, we should be de-
voting our time, energy, and resources ad-
dressing Russian infiltration of our election in-
frastructure and campaigns, along with other
pressing issues.
Instead of enjoying and strengthening the
protections guaranteed in the Voting Rights
Act—people of color, women, LGBTQ individ-
uals, and immigrants—have been given the
joyless, exhausting task of fending off the con-
stant barrage of attacks levelled at our com-
munities by Trump and other conspiracy theo-
rists.
Not only are we tasked with reversing the
current dismal state of voter suppression
against minorities; we are forced to refute the
blatant, propagandist lie of voter fraud.
To this end, I have been persistent in my ef-
forts to protect the rights of disenfranchised
communities in my district of inner-city Hous-
ton and across the nation.
Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have
cosponsored dozens of bills, amendments,
and resolutions seeking to improve voters’
rights at all stages and levels of the election
process.
This includes legislation aimed at:
1. Increasing voter outreach and turnout;
2. Ensuring both early and same-day reg-
istration;
3. Standardizing physical and language ac-
cessibility at polling places;
4. Expanding early voting periods;
5. Decreasing voter wait times;
6. Guaranteeing absentee ballots, especially
for displaced citizens;
7. Modernizing voting technologies and
strengthening our voter record systems;
8. Establishing the federal Election Day as
a national holiday; and
9. Condemning and criminalizing deceptive
practices, voter intimidation, and other sup-
pression tactics;
Along with many of my CBC colleagues, I
was an original cosponsor of H.R. 9, the
Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta
Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization
and Amendments Act, which became public
law on July 27, 2006.
I also authored H.R. 745 in the 110th Con-
gress, which added the legendary Barbara
Jordan to the list of civil rights trailblazers
whose memories are honored in the naming
the Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and
Amendments Act.
This bill strengthened the original Voting
Rights Act by replacing federal voting exam-
iners with federal voting observers—a signifi-
cant enhancement that made it easier to safe-
guard against racially biased voter suppres-
sion tactics.
In the 114th Congress, I introduced H.R. 75,
the Coretta Scott King Mid-Decade Redis-
tricting Prohibition Act of 2015, which prohibits
states whose congressional districts have
been redistricted after a decennial census
from redrawing their district lines until the next
census.
Prejudiced redistricting, or gerrymandering
as it is more commonly known, has been used
for decades to weaken the voting power of Af-
rican Americans, Latino Americans, and other
minorities since the Civil Rights Era.
Immediately after the Shelby County ruling,
which lifted preclearance requirements for
states with histories of discrimination seeking
to change their voting laws or practices, redis-
tricting became a favorite tool for Republicans
who connived to unfairly gain 3 congressional
seats in Texas.
In the 110th Congress, I was the original
sponsor of H.R. 6778, the Ex-Offenders Voting
Rights Act of 2008, which prohibited denial of
the right to vote in a federal election on the
bases of an individual’s status as a formerly
incarcerated person.
The Ex-Offenders Voting Rights Act sought
to reverse discriminatory voter restrictions that
disproportionately affect the African American
voting population, which continues to be tar-
geted by mass incarceration, police profiling,
and a biased criminal justice system.
Those of us who cherish the right to vote
justifiably are skeptical of Voter ID laws be-
cause we understand how these laws, like poll
taxes and literacy tests, can be used to im-
pede or negate the ability of seniors, racial
and language minorities, and young people to
cast their votes.
Voter ID laws are just one of the means that
can be used to abridge or suppress the right
to vote but there are others, including:
1. Curtailing or Eliminating Early Voting;
2. Ending Same-Day Registration;
3. Not counting provisional ballots cast in
the wrong precinct on Election Day will not
count;
4. Eliminating Teenage Pre-Registration;
5. Shortened Poll Hours;
6. Lessening the standards governing voter
challenges used by vigilantes, like the King
Street Patriots in my city of Houston, to cause
trouble at the polls;
7. ‘‘Voter Caging,’’ to suppress the turnout
of minority voters by sending non-forwardable
mail to targeted populations and, once the
mail is returned, using the returned mail to
compile lists of voters whose eligibility is then
challenged on the basis of residence under
state law; and
8. Employing targeted redistricting tech-
niques to dilute minority voting strength, nota-
bly ‘‘Cracking’’ (i.e., fragmenting and dis-
persing concentrations of minority popu-
lations); ‘‘Stacking’’ (combining concentrations
of minority voters with greater concentrations
of white populations); and ‘‘Packing’’ (i.e.,
over-concentrating minority voters in as few
districts as possible).
Mr. Chair, we must not allow our democracy
to slide back into the worst elements of this
country’s past, to stand idly by as our treas-
ured values of democracy, progress, and
equality are poisoned and dismantled.
I urge all members to join me in voting to
pass H.R. 1, the ‘‘For The People Act of
2019.’’
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chairman, I appreciate what the
gentlewoman from Texas just brought
up, but part of the responsibilities of
the State are to ensure that those who
have been given the right to vote are
the ones voting. That is why the
States—and the Supreme Court has
upheld this—have not only the right,
but the responsibility to ensure that
the voter rolls are purged of those who
have moved, who have passed away, or
who have been shown as ineligible to
vote.
Just a few weeks ago, I was able to
write a congratulatory letter to a new
immigrant to the United States. For 16
years, she worked to become a citizen
of the United States, with the dream of
voting. This next election she will be
able to cast her vote as a citizen of the
United States of America.
Part of our responsibility is to ensure
that her vote matters and it isn’t dis-
credited by someone who is not eligible
to vote casting a vote and diluting her
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.011 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2396 March 6, 2019
voice in this government. That is why
it is more appropriate for the States,
who are closer to the people, to be the
ones who are setting the standards—ac-
cording to our Constitution—for elec-
tion.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. OLSON).
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Chairman, back
home, all Texans agree the 10 most ter-
rifying words and the biggest lie people
can hear is ‘‘I’m from the Federal Gov-
ernment, and I’m here to help.’’
On that viewpoint, H.R. 1, which is
called the For the People Act, should
be called the ‘‘For the Big Government
Act’’ or, more accurately, the ‘‘Big Lie
Act.’’
Texas 22 does not want to have $6 of
Federal tax dollars given to subsidize
small donors and match every dollar
they raise. They prefer that $6 of their
money be used for new roads, deeper
ports, Border Patrol, safe schools, and
hurricane prevention.
Texas is being swarmed by Califor-
nians. They are coming for jobs, a low
State income tax—zero—and a friendly
environment for businesses. Just like
we don’t want a tax on plastic straws,
Texans sure as heck don’t want to fol-
low California’s same-day registration.
I ask my colleagues, respect the Con-
stitution, respect the 10th Amendment,
respect States’ rights, and vote against
this terrible bill.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, it is
my honor to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. HOYER),
who is the Democratic leader.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding. I thank
her for her leadership on this bill, H.R.
1, and I thank Mr. SARBANES for being
a principal sponsor and proponent of
H.R. 1.
Mr. Chairman, I rise as the sponsor of
the Help America Vote Act in 2002,
which responded to the lack of per-
formance on our voting system in the
2000 election, hanging chads and all.
This bill expands on that.
But let me, at the outset, remind
those who would talk about what the
Constitution says to read a portion of
the Constitution.
Let me say before I do that, through-
out my lifetime, early in my lifetime,
I heard a lot about States’ rights. Peo-
ple talk about the right to vote. I was
in Alabama this past weekend, and we
commemorated the march over the Ed-
mund Pettus Bridge, which was led by
our colleague, JOHN LEWIS. There were
State troopers meeting him on the
other side of the bridge that beat and
almost killed JOHN LEWIS. Why? Be-
cause he was marching from Selma to
Montgomery to register to vote.
I remember, as a child—not a child; I
was a young man—watching Lester
Maddox on television with an ax handle
saying that nobody was going to inte-
grate his premises.
I have heard a lot about States’
rights through the years. Now, what
did our Founders say about States’
rights as it relates to Members of Con-
gress? ‘‘The times, places, and manner
of holding elections for Senators and
Representatives shall be prescribed in
each State by the legislature there-
of’’—and apparently we didn’t get to
this phrase—‘‘but the Congress may at
any time by law make or alter such
regulations. . . . ‘’
Why did our Founders do that? Be-
cause they wanted one nation.
Now, that was not our pledge at that
point in time, but they wanted the
Colonies to come together as a nation.
They had been a federation, and it
didn’t work so well. So they wanted
one nation to come together, and at
least for the Federal Congress, they re-
served to the Federal Congress the
right to set the rules in the Constitu-
tion.
Mr. Chairman, last September, I de-
livered a speech outlining House Demo-
crats’ plans to renew faith in govern-
ment by enacting a series of reforms to
increase transparency, accountability,
and ethics reform. This week, after ex-
tensive hearings and lots of witnesses,
we bring to the floor a legislative pack-
age of reforms that made good on our
promises to the American people last
year.
We didn’t make a secret of this. This
was well-known to everybody, and they
gave us the majority of this House. We
are redeeming, today, that honor and
that responsibility.
I want to thank, again, Representa-
tive SARBANES and the cosponsors of
this bill, every single Democratic
Member. I want to thank JOHN LEWIS,
a giant of a man, a giant of principle,
a giant who risked his very life to
make sure that the protections avail-
able in this bill would be available to
every American and that we would pro-
mote—not prevent—accessibility to the
voting booth and that we would not
confront people going over a bridge in
Selma, Alabama, who only wanted to
register to vote, to be turned around by
State troopers ordered by Governor
Wallace to do so.
This bill was driven in large part by
our dynamic freshman class who were
elected on a platform of making gov-
ernment work once again for the peo-
ple.
This For the People Act will open
government up in several critical ways.
First, it includes real national redis-
tricting reform. I am for that. Mr.
Chairman, it may cost Maryland a
seat—I get that—but it is the right
thing to do to have a level playing
field.
Now, we have got a number of court
cases that have turned around redis-
tricting in North Carolina, in Pennsyl-
vania, in Texas, and in some other
States as well. But I have always said
that, in order to be successful, redis-
tricting reform cannot be done on a
State-by-State basis; and the Constitu-
tion, of course, says that Congress may
at any time by law make or alter such
regulations so that we have fair—they
don’t have to do this for State elec-
tions. If they don’t want to do it, that
is fine. But we, under the Constitution,
are the arbiters of Federal elections. It
must be a uniform process across all
States.
H.R. 1, the For the People Act,
achieves this by requiring a non-
partisan redistricting commission to
oversee the process in every State.
What does that mean? It means the
politicians will not do it. Iowa, Cali-
fornia, or Arizona will have a fair re-
districting process.
Next, this bill includes a much-need-
ed expansion of voting rights to protect
our democracy. It would institute
automatic voter registration.
In America, if you are an American
citizen, you ought to have the right to
vote, and government ought not make
it difficult for you to exercise that
right. No eligible voter should ever be
turned away from his or her polling
place.
It will also restore the vote to those
who have paid their debt to society and
should have a voice in their representa-
tive government.
This legislation builds on the impor-
tant bipartisan work we did in 2002
when we passed, as I pointed out, the
Help America Vote Act. It reauthorizes
the Election Assistance Commission,
which, very frankly, my Republican
friends tried to eliminate on a number
of occasions and transfer their author-
ity to the finance commission, which
oversees campaign finance—not elec-
tion laws, campaign finance. It was a
way to, in effect, undermine and kill,
in many ways, the Election Assistance
Commission designed to make sure
that our elections are secure and fair.
It reauthorizes the Election Assistance
Commission, which is critically impor-
tant to ensuring modern, accessible,
and secure elections.
In addition, H.R. 1 will make cam-
paign finance more transparent, requir-
ing super-PACs to disclose their do-
nors.
Again, I want to congratulate my
colleague. We are very proud of JOHN
SARBANES and his dad in Maryland. He
has been indefatigable in his work in
trying to make sure that it is the peo-
ple’s interest and not the financial in-
terests that control our elections.
b 1515
This bill will end the era of massive
amounts of dark, unaccountable money
funding ads and campaigns.
The For the People Act will also im-
pose higher ethical standards on Amer-
ica’s highest elected officials.
There is only one person in govern-
ment who can do something on his
own. It is not the Senate. It is not the
House. It is not us. We need collec-
tivity. But the President can make
substantial decisions on his own and,
in fact, has. He has done so over the
wishes of the Congress of the United
States just recently, so the people
ought to know what his interests are
and whether he is acting for his inter-
ests or the people’s interests.
Among other new requirements,
Presidents and Vice Presidents would
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.044 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2397
March 6, 2019
be required, therefore, to release 10
years’ worth of tax returns.
In such ways, H.R. 1 will make
strides, Mr. Chair, in restoring the
trust in government that, unfortu-
nately, has been lost in recent years.
Americans need to know that their
government works for them and can be
a force for good for their families, their
communities, and our country.
I rise in strong support of this legis-
lation. I don’t rise because I think it is
perfect, but I rise because I think it is
an excellent effort to redeem the prom-
ise of America and our democracy.
It is for the people. Let us vote for
the people.
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I thank my esteemed col-
league, the majority leader, for whom I
have an immense amount of respect. I
appreciate the words that he said and
especially his participation in the com-
memoration of the march in Selma, in
which my family has also participated.
Have we always got it right in the
United States? No. Our Founders knew
that we would make mistakes along
the way, but they gave us the power
and the ability to correct those mis-
takes.
The lack of civil rights in this Nation
was a travesty to the people. It flew in
the face of the ideas of our Founders
that all men were created equal. That
is why Republicans fought so hard for
civil rights during the 1960s and 1970s.
I agree with the majority leader. We
do have the ability, according to the
Constitution, to make modifications.
But H.R. 1 is not a modification. It is a
sweeping takeover of the election sys-
tem, leaving the States with very little
authority or power over their own elec-
tions, as well as the Federal elections.
I also would like to say that I heard
that this bill has had extensive hear-
ings. I serve on the Committee on
House Administration, the only com-
mittee which had a hearing on this bill.
The hearing lasted 5 hours, and the
only reason it lasted that long was be-
cause the Republicans submitted 28
amendments to the bill. Otherwise,
this bill would have gone right in and
right out of committee, with probably
less than an hour of a committee hear-
ing, and come to this floor.
It has 10 committees of jurisdiction.
It has not gone before those commit-
tees, so I submit it has not followed
regular order.
Especially with something of this
magnitude, the American people have
the right to hear, they have the right
to understand, what is in this bill.
They have not been afforded that op-
portunity.
Mr. Chair, we have 50 States, 50 State
Governors, 50 secretaries of state, and I
know my Governor and secretary of
state have not been involved in this
process. It has a drastic impact, not
only upon the voting rights of the peo-
ple in Georgia, but also on the budget
of Georgia, the fiscal cost.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
PERRY), my good friend.
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chair, I thank Mr.
LOUDERMILK for the time, and I, too,
thank the majority leader for his com-
ments. But I don’t think it should be
removed from history that the Gov-
ernor of Alabama at that time ran on
segregation; multiple times, ran on
segregation. It was the Republicans in
this House, the majority percentage of
Republicans, that carried the day for
the Voting Rights Act.
Mr. Chair, this bill, among other
things, forces States to count votes
cast outside of voters’ assigned pre-
cincts. Just think about that. I am
going to vote for you over here even
though I don’t live there. That is going
to be great. That is what we all want,
people who don’t live in our neighbor-
hoods voting for the people who decide
our fates and our policies.
Mr. Chair, the For the People Act,
that is what it is called, but I wonder:
Which people? Is it the people here or
the people out there?
It seems like it is for the people here
when powerful voices on the left and
the right oppose this bill, voices like
the ACLU, voices like the NRA and
Planned Parenthood, because, Mr.
Chair, while you might want to con-
tribute to one of those organizations
because you believe in their cause, you
don’t want the protest to show up on
your doorstep. It is bad enough that it
shows up, the protest, at Planned Par-
enthood or the NRA or the gun show or
whatever, but now the protest is going
to show up at your door—at your
door—because the people who are op-
posed to the things you believe in are
going to find out you sent your 5 bucks
in. They are going to come to your
door and say: Well, I don’t agree with
you. I don’t like you. And I don’t think
you should be spending your money on
those things.
Is that what we want in America?
That is what this bill does, Mr. Chair.
Essentially, it is going to empower the
Federal Election Commission to carry
out the actions of Lois Lerner and the
IRS during the last administration in
an attempt to silence opposition to the
politicians in the swamp, in this place,
regardless of which side you are on.
I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote for this bill, Mr.
Chair.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Mr. LANGEVIN), who has served
so faithfully on the House Homeland
Security Committee.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding. I
would also like to thank her, Chairman
Thompson, Congressman SARBANES,
and the many Democratic Members
who helped craft this important legis-
lation.
H.R. 1, Mr. Chairman, among many
things, will make our elections more
ethical and will make them more se-
cure.
As a former Rhode Island secretary
of state and member of the Congres-
sional Task Force on Election Secu-
rity, I absolutely believe that we must
actively address our elections systems’
vulnerabilities, or our enemies cer-
tainly will.
H.R. 1 provides States with funding,
guidance, and threat intelligence to se-
cure election systems by purchasing
voting machines that provide auditable
paper ballots, securing voter registra-
tion databases, and training election
officials.
Now, these suggestions came from
the task force, and they reflect guid-
ance we heard from leaders like Rhode
Island Secretary of State Nellie
Gorbea, who is implementing one of
the Nation’s first risk-limiting audits.
They also reflect the wisdom of the cy-
bersecurity researchers who have so
much to offer in identifying vulnerabil-
ities and helping us to close them.
Mr. Chairman, with the 2020 elections
around the corner, I am proud to sup-
port this legislation, because we must
act now to protect our democracy.
Mr. Chair, I would like to thank Ms. LOF-
GREN, Chairman THOMPSON, Congressman
SARBANES, and the many House Democratic
members who helped craft this vital legislation.
The For the People Act will not only make our
elections more ethical and accessible, it will
also help secure them from outside inter-
ference.
As a former Secretary of State of Rhode Is-
land and member of the Congressional Task
Force on Election Security, I believe we must
actively address the vulnerabilities in our elec-
tion systems.
We know that Russia interfered with our
2016 elections, targeting political organizations
and the election infrastructure of at least 21
states. They sought to undermine public con-
fidence in our elections, and despite no evi-
dence of ballot tampering, millions of Ameri-
cans now question whether their votes are
counted properly.
While state and local governments must re-
tain control of elections, they cannot be ex-
pected to confront a nation state like Russia
on their own. We owe it to our state partners
to provide the resources they need to protect
these vital systems at the heart of our democ-
racy.
H.R. 1 ensures states have the funding,
guidance, and threat intelligence they need to
address the risks and vulnerabilities in their
systems, whether by purchasing voting ma-
chines that provide auditable paper ballots, se-
curing voter registration databases, or training
election officials in cybersecurity best prac-
tices.
These are all suggestions that came from
the Task Force, and they reflect guidance we
heard from local election leaders like Rhode
Island’s current Secretary of State, Nellie
Gorbea, who is implementing one of the first
risk-limiting audits in the nation. They also re-
flect the wisdom of the cybersecurity research
community that has so much to offer when it
comes to shoring up our systems and net-
works.
With the 2020 elections right around the
corner, I’m proud to support this legislation—
it’s more important than ever that we act swift-
ly to protect the integrity of our democracy.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, may I
inquire how much time remains on
each side.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
California has 441⁄2 minutes remaining.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.046 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2398 March 6, 2019
The gentleman from Georgia has 38
minutes remaining.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Chair, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. UPTON).
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Chairman, I have
long been a supporter of campaign fi-
nance reform. I voted for motor voter.
I voted for McCain-Feingold the year
in the House it was Shays-Meehan. I
supported the Help America Vote Act
in 2002.
There are plenty of flaws in the cur-
rent system. That is for sure. And we
need to fix it. But you know what? We
have a Democratic House, and we have
a Republican Senate, and the only way
that we are reasonably going to fix this
issue is with a bipartisan bill.
I am the only Republican here today
who was here in 1993 when we passed
the motor voter bill. This was a bill
that was patterned after what Michi-
gan has had in place for decades. When
you get your driver’s license, you are
asked to register to vote. It works.
This bill, H.R. 1, is not bipartisan.
One of our big objections is truly the
taxpayer-financed campaign element of
this bill.
If you do a poll today across the
country, you are going to find that
most voters are going to say that cam-
paigns are too expensive; they are too
negative; and, yes, they are too long.
We are going to have thousands—
thousands—of candidates running for
Congress. They are all going to be eli-
gible for this match from the Treasury
for any contribution under $200, with a
6-to-1 ratio, so we are going to have
more money in politics, and we are not
going to have the transparency that I
think all of us want.
If we are going to fix the problem,
let’s sit down; let’s have regular order;
let’s have all the committees with
some jurisdiction sit down and have
Republicans and Democrats work to-
gether on a committee process that we
can pass in a bipartisan vote that will
get the attention of the Senate, and
maybe we can do something about the
problems today.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. SARBANES), the one person
who probably has worked harder than
anyone else on this bill.
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Chair, last year, in the 2018 elec-
tion, a powerful message was sent to
this Congress that the public wants us
to clean up our politics, fight corrup-
tion, unrig the system, and make sure
that voting rights are protected.
I think part of the reason the mes-
sage was so strong is that, for the last
8 years under a Republican Congress,
there has been no progress made on
any of those priorities, so there is this
pent-up demand out there among the
public. They want their voice back.
H.R. 1 is our opportunity to give them
their voice back.
The message they are sending is very
simple. The first message is: Make it
possible for us to get to the ballot box
without running an obstacle course.
It is inconceivable, it is incompre-
hensible, that more than 50 years after
JOHN LEWIS, our colleague, was blood-
ied on the Edmund Pettus Bridge pro-
testing for voting rights, we still can’t
get it right in America when it comes
to voting.
That is ridiculous. We need to make
it more possible to register and vote in
this country so that people can get to
the ballot box and their voices can be
heard. That is one thing they are say-
ing to us.
The other thing they are saying to us
is, when you get to Washington, if you
are a lawmaker, if you serve in an of-
fice of public trust, behave yourself,
abide by ethics, be accountable to the
people, remember who sent you there,
and be transparent. We have provisions
in H.R. 1 that strengthen ethics and ac-
countability, as we should.
The third thing they said to us, loud
and clear, was, when you get to Wash-
ington, don’t get tangled up in the
money, don’t let the special interests
and the insiders call the shots on prior-
ities in Congress, remember who sent
you, and fight for us. So we have meas-
ures in here to clean up the campaign
finance system, create more disclosure,
transparency, so we know where that
secret money is coming from, building
a new system of funding campaigns in
America that is not owned by the spe-
cial interests and the big money.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD). The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 1 minute to the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. SARBANES. Let’s build a new
system of funding campaigns in Amer-
ica that is not owned by the special in-
terests and the big money and the in-
siders. Let’s build a system that is
owned by the American people, where
they call the shots, where small donors
can have their contributions matched
so that their voice is amplified, so they
are the ones who run the show, so can-
didates go to them and listen to what
they have to say instead of hanging out
with the lobbyists and the big-money
crowd.
That is what this bill offers.
My colleagues on the other side keep
talking about how this is going to be
taxpayer money for this system. Find
me the provision. There is no provision
in this bill that says that any taxpayer
money is going to go to this system,
because it is not.
We have come up with an elegant so-
lution where we go to the lawbreakers,
the people who are leaning on our sys-
tem and breaking the law, and we ask
them, with a small surcharge, to con-
tribute to this fund. That is where the
match will come from.
We are going to the people who aren’t
playing fair with our system, and we
are asking them to underwrite a clean
election system. That is how it should
work.
Let’s restore the voice of the people.
Let’s pass H.R. 1.
b 1530
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I appreciate the gentleman and the
author of the bill and his comments.
Are there some good ideas in this bill?
Absolutely. The States already have
them implemented. Early voting. Great
idea. Georgia did that many years ago;
even included Saturday voting.
It is improper for the Federal Gov-
ernment to be the arbitrator of these,
to push these down upon the American
people. That is something that has
been reserved for the States and the
States have been doing those well.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
SMUCKER).
Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Chairman,
Democrats have been marketing H.R. 1
as a necessary election reform meas-
ure, but the ugly truth is that this bill
is not for the people. It is for the
Democratic Party.
The ugly truth is that this bill is a
massive Federal overreach. The ugly
truth is that this bill won’t make our
elections safer or more democratic.
The ugly truth is that this bill would
fundamentally change the principles of
our election system, all at a cost to the
average American taxpayer.
And this bill would infringe on the
rights of our colleges and universities,
where so many students go to learn and
grow, outside of the influence of poli-
tics.
Instead of promoting the freedom of
ideas, this bill limits the right to free
speech. The ugly truth is this bill vio-
lates the U.S. Constitution, the docu-
ment which makes our country so
great.
Instead of calling this bill the For
the People Act, it should be called the
‘‘Democrat Politician Protection Act.’’
This bill is nothing but a top-down
power grab to take our election sys-
tem, reverse it, and send it completely
off course. Beyond that, this bill con-
tains numerous provisions attempting
to weaponize our institutions of higher
learning, where people go to learn.
H.R. 1 forces our colleges and univer-
sities to divert resources to election-
related tasks, including provisions for
colleges and universities to automati-
cally register students to vote.
Students could also establish a sec-
ond residency, which is, essentially,
another way of weakening the voting
system and giving them, potentially,
the right to vote not once, but twice.
You heard that right. There are no
other people in our country who get to
be registered to vote in two locations.
Under H.R. 1, this could be allowed.
Article I, section 4 of our Constitu-
tion gives States the right to deter-
mine their own registration and voting
practices, not our Federal Government.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.048 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2399
March 6, 2019
This bill blatantly violates our own
constitutional rights as well as the
rights of our higher education institu-
tions.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Chairman, I
yield the gentleman from Pennsylvania
an additional 30 seconds.
Mr. SMUCKER. As the Republican
leader on the House Education and
Labor, Higher Education and Work-
force Investment Committee, we
should be focusing on making colleges
more affordable and helping more stu-
dents complete their degrees, not sub-
jecting them to electioneering efforts.
I cannot support a Federal overreach
into places where students should be
free to learn without the influence of
politics. We must reject this overreach.
We must speak now and stand up
against this power grab before it is too
late.
I will be voting against this measure,
and I urge my colleagues to do the
same.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LEE), a leader for civil
rights and justice in our country.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Chairman,
I want to thank Chairwoman LOFGREN
for yielding, but also for her tireless
leadership on so many issues that con-
front our country today.
I rise in strong support of H.R. 1, the
For the People Act of 2019. It is a his-
toric bill to restore the promise of our
Nation’s democracy and repair our
democratic institutions. H.R. 1 rep-
resents a coordinated effort to protect
and promote the voting rights of all
Americans.
H.R. 1 would also end the culture of
corruption in Washington; reduce the
role of big money in politics; and make
it easier, not harder, to vote.
Mr. Chairman, let me be clear. The
right to vote is a sacred civil right in
our Nation, but we know that there are
those who want to turn the clock back
on voting rights and suppress minority
voters. There are those who want to
undercut the power and representation
of communities of color and, really,
lock us out of the political process.
With this historic bill before us we
say, ‘‘Enough is enough.’’ Instead, H.R.
1 will ensure that every eligible voter
has the chance to participate in our de-
mocracy.
This bill also includes important pro-
visions to ensure clean and fair elec-
tions. I urge my colleagues to vote
‘‘yes’’ on this bill and vote ‘‘yes’’ to re-
storing our democracy once and for all.
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I do want to commend my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle for some-
thing that they have accomplished
with H.R. 1, and that is unity, because
this bill has brought the American
Civil Liberties Union, National Right
to Life, The Heritage Foundation, and
the U.S. Chamber in unity in opposi-
tion to this bill, something that I
thought I would never see happen here
in Washington, D.C.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. COL-
LINS).
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I do appreciate that because I am
very concerned, after two straight
weeks of Democrat bills, I am going to
have a 100 percent voting record with
the ACLU. That is something new as
we go forward here; although I think
they do good work, I just didn’t know
we were going to agree so soon on this.
Mr. Chairman, I am going to describe
the terrible policy behind the provi-
sions of H.R. 1 in the jurisdiction of the
Judiciary Committee.
It is amazing, also, that we just did
this without going through, because we
didn’t want to mark this up in areas
because we didn’t want to see what was
in it; because here is what is going to
happen:
First, the bill creates a private cause
of action for lawsuits related to the
Help America Vote Act of 2002. That
means the bill allows anyone to sue
anybody if they don’t like the way an
election was conducted in a locality,
State, or nationwide.
Do you all remember the lawsuit
Bush v. Gore? In 2000, Democratic Pres-
idential candidate Al Gore didn’t like
the results of the vote in Florida. If he
could get the Florida results over-
turned, he would have had enough to
win the Presidency. So he sued to get
the Florida results overturned by a
court. The case went all the way up to
the Supreme Court which finally
stopped the recount after a month of
legal wrangling that made America
look like its elections were determined
by lawyers, not voters.
Well, guess what? We are bringing
them back. Here they come in, because
under this bill today, you won’t just
see more cases like Gore v. Florida.
You will see all sorts of lawsuits; Ev-
erybody v. Everybody.
Does a candidate need 1,000 more
votes to win? Then a candidate can sue
in two or three counties and see if a
judge will order those votes into their
vote column.
Does a candidate need a few more
votes? Then under this bill, they could
sue in a dozen counties. Need a million
votes? This bill allows a losing can-
didate and disgruntled activists to sue
in all 50 States: Gore v. Georgia, Gore
v. Oklahoma, Gore versus any state
that it takes to gather enough judicial
relief to cobble together an election
victory, taking time and money away
from State and local elected officials
who desperately need that money to
administer free and fair elections; not
pay bogus legal fees.
The Help America Vote Act of 2002
was enacted to precisely avoid future
lawsuits like Gore v. Florida. Now this
bill will undo all that and make mat-
ters worse in the process.
Second, this bill takes powers away
from voters and gives it to convicted
criminals by denying State voters their
constitutional right to limit voting by
people who have been convicted of
murder, violent felonies, or other seri-
ous crimes including, by the way—get
this—voter fraud.
These provisions are patently uncon-
stitutional. The Supreme Court, in-
cluding liberal Justices Ginsburg,
Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, all
held, just a few years ago, mind you,
that:
Surely nothing in the Elections Clause of
the Constitution lends itself to the view that
voting qualifications in Federal elections are
to be set by Congress.
Further, the 14th Amendment of the
Constitution itself explicitly recog-
nizes the rights of States to deny the
vote for ‘‘participation in crime.’’
Third, this is what happens when you
bypass the committee process. I spoke
about this one on the floor already last
week. Here we go again. The new ma-
jority doesn’t like committees.
A provision in the bill, at page 99—
listen to me clearly—lines 7–12 of the
Committee Print, states:
No person, whether acting under color of
law or otherwise, shall intentionally hinder,
interfere with, or prevent another from vot-
ing, registering to vote, or aiding another
person to vote in an election.
That text, if read strictly, says it
makes it illegal to prevent a four-year
old from voting, to prevent an illegal
alien from voting, and to prevent any
other non-qualified person from voting.
This same provision again appears in
pages 102 and 103, and adds a criminal
penalty of up to 5 years in prison and a
$100,000 fine.
Now here is the problem. The prob-
lem is that provision I just quoted,
doesn’t refer to a person’s exercising
the right to vote; that is voting when
they have a legal right to vote. The
standard term used when a statutory
provision is aimed at protecting legiti-
mate voters from voting refers to the
denial or abridgment of the right to
vote.
Now, listen, because this provision
doesn’t contain those key terms, mean-
ing the provisions would literally make
it illegal to prevent illegal voters from
voting, we shouldn’t be making it a
crime—
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I yield an additional 30 sec-
onds to the gentleman from Georgia.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. We
shouldn’t be making it a crime for
election officials to do their job.
Remember, we can’t prevent illegal
voters from voting under this bill,
which makes it—they have no legal
right to vote illegally.
Every illegal voter cancels the vote
of a legal voter. This was recognized in
the Supreme Court case, Reynolds v.
Sims and, in that case it was said:
The right to vote can be denied by a
debasement or dilution of the weight of a
citizen’s vote just as effectively as by wholly
prohibiting the free exercise of that fran-
chise.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.049 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2400 March 6, 2019
Look, an illegal vote negated the
vote of a legal voter. This bill, my col-
leagues across the aisle, you are get-
ting ready to vote for a bill that actu-
ally could negate legal voting.
I could go on for days. This is why
committees matter. This is why this
bill is bad. Why do we keep doing this
and running away.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Wash-
ington (Mr. KILMER).
Mr. KILMER. Mr. Chairman, I want
to start by saying thank you to Con-
gressman SARBANES for his important
work on leading this legislation.
I am proud that we are bringing for-
ward H.R. 1 to restore faith in the leg-
islative branch, because right now Con-
gress is less popular than head lice and
colonoscopies. That is because every
time my constituents see a bill that is
written behind closed doors, or see a
government shutdown, or see floor de-
bate that looks like the Jerry Springer
Show, they need to see a restoration of
faith in government.
This bill will protect voting rights,
strengthen ethics rules, and reduce the
role of big money politics. It will re-
fresh our democracy; and that is why
the new Democrat coalition has en-
dorsed this bill.
Listen, we don’t talk enough about
it. This bill includes bipartisan provi-
sions in support of good government. It
includes a bipartisan bill that I am
leading, the Restoring Integrity to
America’s Elections Act, which would
reform the Federal Election Commis-
sion, and enable it to weed out cam-
paign finance abuse, and hold those
who skirt the rules accountable.
It includes the Honest Ads Act, my
bipartisan bill.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Ms. LOFGREN. I yield the gentleman
from Washington an additional 30 sec-
onds.
Mr. KILMER. It includes the Honest
Ads Act, my bipartisan bill that would
shine a light on the murky world of on-
line political advertising by requiring
digital ads to meet the same disclosure
requirements as print or broadcast ads.
Americans deserve to know who is
paying for political ads that they see
online. They deserve to know that the
Nation’s election watchdog is back on
the beat. They deserve to have their
voices heard in Congress again. That is
why this bill is important. That is why
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR).
Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today in strong opposition to H.R. 1.
This is my fourth term in the U.S.
House of Representatives, and I can
say, without reservation or equivo-
cation, H.R. 1 is the single worst, most
unsound, unconstitutional legislation
that I have seen in my 61⁄2 years in Con-
gress.
The bill federalizes elections in viola-
tion of basic constitutional principles,
usurping States’ primary authority
over the conduct of elections, including
Federal elections.
The bill effectively legalizes voter
fraud, and destroys the integrity of
elections by degrading the accuracy of
registration lists, ensuring duplicate
registration and registration of ineli-
gible voters.
The bill unconstitutionally rations
core free speech protected by the First
Amendment by empowering a powerful
partisan bureaucracy to impose oner-
ous legal and administrative compli-
ance burdens and costs on candidates,
citizens, civic groups, and nonprofit or-
ganizations. These provisions violate
the First Amendment; they protect in-
cumbents; and they diminish the ac-
countability of politicians to the pub-
lic.
And finally, worst of all, the bill
gives welfare to politicians, coercing
Americans to support candidates with
whom they fundamentally disagree.
This doesn’t enhance democracy, the
idea that we, the people establish a
government based on the consent of
the government. It corrupts democracy
by taking away the fundamental right
of the people to choose their own rep-
resentatives, and giving it to a par-
tisan election bureaucracy in Wash-
ington, D.C.
Mr. Chairman, Soviet dictator Jo-
seph Stalin once famously said:
The people who cast the votes don’t decide
an election; the people who count the votes
do.
H.R. 1 would ‘‘Stalinize’’ American
elections by legalizing voter fraud, giv-
ing partisan election bureaucrats the
power to ration free speech, and by co-
ercing Americans to support can-
didates and causes with whom they
fundamentally disagree.
I urge everyone, for the sake of the
First Amendment and for our Constitu-
tion, vote ‘‘no.’’
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Before yielding to the gentlewoman
from Michigan, I would just like to
quote one of the most conservative jus-
tices, who said that ‘‘the public has an
interest in knowing who is speaking
about a candidate shortly before an
election.’’ That was in the Citizens
United decision.
b 1545
Now, I didn’t agree with that deci-
sion, but the court posited that the so-
lution to the dark money that they
were unleashing on the country was
disclosure, and that is what this bill
does.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Michigan (Ms.
TLAIB).
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chair, today I rise in
support of H.R. 1, the For the People
Act. H.R. 1 will restore our democracy.
We need a comprehensive bill, Mr.
Chairman, that takes action on what
the people sent us to Congress to do: to
work on their behalf and to ensure that
government is truly for, by, and of the
people; and we must demand it imme-
diately.
We know that today many people, es-
pecially those at home in my congres-
sional district in the 13th, various com-
munities of color across this country,
continue to face voter disenfranchise-
ment while trying to exercise their
right to vote and make their voices
heard. We must acknowledge this in-
justice and remedy it immediately.
We need to have stricter rules, Mr.
Chair, rules of conflict of interest when
it comes to the offices of the President,
the Vice President, and the appointees,
including the reaffirmation of the re-
quirement to divest in business inter-
ests. We do that with H.R. 1.
I commend my colleagues for the ad-
ditional language requiring both that
language for the executive branch,
trading individual stocks, and so forth.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentlewoman has expired.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 15 seconds to the gentle-
woman.
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chair, we can’t allow
our democracy to be tainted. We must
demand that our government is strong-
er, more transparent, and more acces-
sible for all of our Americans.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS), my good friend.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Chair, let’s be clear: H.R. 1 takes
money from hardworking American
taxpayers and puts it straight in the
pockets of politicians.
Let me be abundantly clear: This bill
that the Democrats have proposed pro-
vides taxpayer funding for Federal
campaigns, Mr. Chair.
By voting for this bill, the Democrats
are voting to take the American hard-
working taxpayers’ money and actu-
ally give it back to be used for their
own campaigns. By voting for this bill,
the Democrats are saying, ‘‘We deserve
to stay elected.’’
This is a money grab for politicians.
This unfairly benefits elected incum-
bents. It protects career politicians.
Under the guise of campaign finance
reform and dark money reform, this
600-page bill does nothing but fill the
campaign coffers of people who have al-
ready been elected.
Not only that, this bill now includes
a tax stuck in last night as a man-
ager’s amendment in Rules. Yes, they
are wanting to tax American citizens
to make sure that they get reelected
and put money back in their own cam-
paign.
Mr. Chair, if this is how the majority
party believes that we are going to get
transparency in Congress, it is not
doing it. It is not living up to that.
I find it even interesting, because it
seems to trample on our First Amend-
ment rights to speak freely and volun-
tarily participate in the process that
we hold as a privilege of electing our
elected leaders. To top it off, Mr. Chair,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.050 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2401
March 6, 2019
they want you and every hardworking
American taxpayer to pay for it.
Now, I can see it coming up, because
it is going to come very soon, and they
may talk about all the wonderful vir-
tues of this particular bill, but when
they vote for it, they are actually vot-
ing to send taxpayer moneys to get me
reelected. So I look for that endgame
when we say: Democrats vote to give
$3.5 million to reelect the Freedom
Caucus chairman.
I don’t think that that is what Amer-
ica is all about.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, before I reserve, may I inquire
as to how much time is remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Illinois has 24 minutes remaining.
The gentlewoman from California has
371⁄4 minutes remaining.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chairman, before yielding to the
chairman of the Homeland Security
Committee, I would just like to say
that saying it is tax money does not
make it so. We have prohibited appro-
priations into the freedom from influ-
ence fund. The total source of funding
is a 2.75 percent assessment on people
who have committed tax crimes or cor-
porate malfeasance.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON), the chairman of the Home-
land Security Committee.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Chairman, I thank the gentlewoman
from California for giving me the time.
Mr. Chair, I rise today in strong sup-
port of H.R. 1. Last Congress, House
Democrats sought to address Russia’s
meddling in the Presidential election.
Unfortunately, the then-majority
would not prioritize the issue, so
Democrats formed a Congressional
Task Force on Election Security,
which I co-chaired.
In February of 2018, after a series of
public meetings with experts in na-
tional security, cybersecurity, and
election administration, the task force
released a report charting a course for
how we could better protect our elec-
tion infrastructure.
I am pleased that H.R. 1 includes the
Election Security Act, legislation I in-
troduced to implement the task force’s
recommendation. Under the Election
Security Act, States are provided surge
funding to replace decades-old, out-
dated election equipment with more
modern, secure technologies.
Additionally, to move the Nation off
the crisis-to-crisis model we have been
on, it provides grants, ongoing mainte-
nance, and security. It also improves
transparency with election infrastruc-
ture vendors and provides cybersecu-
rity training to election officials.
Last month, at my committee’s hear-
ing on election security, some of my
Republican colleagues balked at the
bill’s price tag. Mr. Chair, to put the
bill’s cost in context, the $1.8 billion
provided here to secure our elections
from the Russians and other foreign
adversaries is half of what Congress
provided in response to the hanging
chads.
For the sake of our democracy, we
cannot leave State and local election
officials to fend for themselves against
sophisticated adversaries like Russia.
We have to help.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 15 seconds to the gentleman.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Chair, I thank the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LOFGREN) for yielding.
Mr. Chair, before I close, I would like
to thank Speaker PELOSI, Chairwoman
LOFGREN, and Mr. SARBANES for all the
work they and their staffs have done to
bring this important measure to the
floor.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Nebraska (Mr. BACON).
Mr. BACON. Mr. Chair, today I rise
in opposition to this effort to conduct
a hostile takeover of our elections by
Washington, D.C.
H.R. 1 is nothing less than an at-
tempt by the majority party to fed-
eralize our election system, strip all
authority from the States, and create
government-funded political cam-
paigns. All of this will increase the
election system’s vulnerability for
fraud and restrict free speech.
The legislation we consider today
will have a long-lasting, devastating
impact on our elections:
H.R. 1 will create a 6-to-1 government
match for all small donor contribu-
tions. This means government funds
will be going to help pay for more cam-
paigns, more TV, more radio ads.
Americans will be compelled to bank-
roll candidates they don’t support.
My sister, a staunch Republican,
shouldn’t have to have her hard-earned
money go towards Democratic can-
didates. Her son, a staunch Democrat,
shouldn’t have his hard-earned money
go towards a Republican.
If H.R. 1 is to become law, it will
place limits on freedom of speech, put-
ting vague standards on groups who
wish to advocate for any legislative
issue. This is why even the ACLU does
not support H.R. 1. And when the
ACLU doesn’t support a Democratic
election bill, you know it is wrong.
Our Nation was built on individuals
advocating for their beliefs. It is our
right to advocate the way we wish for
a cause we believe in.
If a survivor of domestic violence
wishes to quietly donate to a cause
dedicated to fighting domestic vio-
lence, should the Federal Government
be able to come in and publicize their
donation? In some States who have
done this recently, we have seen donors
of advocacy groups be harassed and
chased out of their jobs.
H.R. 1 is another example of the
Democrats saying Washington knows
best. Not one secretary of state was
consulted in the drafting of this legis-
lation. In the Constitution, our Found-
ing Fathers give the authority to the
States to regulate their own elections.
Simply put, this is a power grab, a
power grab by Democrats.
Mr. Chair, for these reasons, I urge
my colleagues to not support this legis-
lation.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, before yielding to the gen-
tleman from New Jersey, I would like
to just address a couple of simple
points.
The DISCLOSE Act really pivots off
the Supreme Court decision in Citizens
United. And as they said in that deci-
sion: Disclaimer and disclosure re-
quirements impose no ceiling on cam-
paign-related activities and do not pre-
vent anyone from speaking.
Concern has been expressed about the
ability to remain private. That is pro-
vided for in this bill. It is simple. If you
don’t want to be disclosed, note that
your donation is not for campaign pur-
poses, and you will not be disclosed.
Further, there is an express protec-
tion provided for any donor who fears
that they may face threat of harass-
ment or reprisal. So we have thought
of this, and this was dealt with in our
markup.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. PAS-
CRELL).
Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Chairman, the
legislation on the floor today contains
within it the Presidential Tax Trans-
parency Act, a bill that I lead with our
prime sponsor, Representative ANNA
ESHOO from California. This legislation
requires sitting Presidents as well as
future Presidential and Vice Presi-
dential candidates to release 10 years
of their tax returns.
The manager’s amendment is right to
add disclosure of returns of any busi-
ness in which the candidate is a prime
owner.
These commonsense transparency
measures will codify into law the prec-
edence of Presidential candidates re-
leasing their tax returns, a precedent
that goes back to Richard Nixon.
President Trump broke with more
than 40 years of this precedent when he
declined to release his tax returns, de-
spite promising to release them. He has
yet to do so, and recent polls show 64
percent of Americans support their re-
lease.
Thanks to the Oversight Committee,
we now have on-the-record testimony
in evidence that this President may
have committed crimes as President.
Michael Cohen received reimbursement
for illegal campaign contributions
from Trump directly. If President
Trump wrote these payments off as a
business expense, that would con-
stitute fraud, and his returns will show
that.
In addition, The Trump Organization
allegedly inflated their revenue in fi-
nancial documents to obtain loans. The
business’ tax returns would show
whether their profits were accurate or
if they filed fraudulent documents.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.052 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2402 March 6, 2019
The President’s conflicts of interest
and finances must be investigated.
With H.R. 1, we are setting down a
marker that we expect standards of
ethics and transparency for all Presi-
dents going forward. With norms and
precedents being shattered daily, Con-
gress must codify certain norms into
law. The law is on our side, 6103.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from New Jersey.
Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Chair, I support
H.R. 1 for taking needed steps to get
dark money and foreign money out of
our politics; restore voting rights that
are under assault in States around the
country; improve our election security,
as you heard the last gentleman say,
BENNIE THOMPSON; and restore integ-
rity to our democratic process.
In too many States, the clock is
turning back on voting rights and elec-
tion integrity. Voter suppression has
become a scourge in our democracy.
For anybody to deny it on this floor,
they haven’t been in the country.
Mr. Chair, these reforms are long
overdue. I urge my colleagues to vote
‘‘yes.’’
The Acting CHAIR. Members are re-
minded to refrain from engaging in
personalities toward the President.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK).
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Mr. Chair, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, consent of the gov-
erned is the cornerstone of our democ-
racy. In America, the people are sov-
ereign, and we govern through the
votes that we cast. At the very core of
this process are fair and free elections.
Every citizen should be free to ex-
press themselves and to vote, and no
citizen should ever be muzzled or have
their legitimate vote canceled out by a
fraudulent one.
b 1600
By definition, one side is always
going to be disappointed with the out-
come. That is why it is essential that
both sides are confident that they were
treated fairly.
Democracies die when one party
seizes control of the elections process,
eliminates the safeguards that have
protected the integrity of the ballot,
places restrictions on free speech, and
seizes the earnings of individual citi-
zens to promote candidates that they
may abhor.
That is precisely what this bill does
today. It destroys the bipartisan com-
position of the Federal Election Com-
mission and places a partisan majority
in control of every aspect of our Fed-
eral elections. It imposes limits on free
speech, and that has earned the opposi-
tion of the American Civil Liberties
Union. It matches a contribution of
$200 given to a candidate with $1,200
taken from others who may oppose
that candidate.
Worst of all, it undermines the integ-
rity of the ballot and opens the flood-
gates to fraud. The purpose of registra-
tion periods is to allow parties to can-
vass the rolls and challenge improper
registrations, while ensuring can-
didates know exactly who is going to
be voting.
The reason we require election day
voting at a polling place is to ensure
voters cast their ballots in secret after
they have heard the entire debate and
after verifying their identity to their
neighbors. This bill sweeps away these
few remaining vestiges of ballot integ-
rity.
Democracies die by suicide, and we
are now face-to-face with such an in-
strument.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I am
honored to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN).
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Chair-
man, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding to me.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1, the For the People Act.
America is not a democracy if we
don’t protect the right to vote. We
should be expanding voter rolls and
making every single American voice
heard at the ballot box, and that in-
cludes currently and previously incar-
cerated Americans. A mistake made
and paid for should not strip your con-
stitutional rights and silence you for
life.
I offered an amendment to this bill
that would have included those Ameri-
cans in our democracy, however, I have
withdrawn that amendment at this
time. I will continue to work with my
colleagues to fight for re-enfranchise-
ment for these Americans.
Mr. Chairman, I close by noting that
this bill represents a paradigm shift in
our approach to voting rights, and it is
a reflection of the priorities of Demo-
cratic leadership in this body. It is long
overdue and exactly the type of legisla-
tion that went overlooked until Demo-
crats retook this Chamber.
Mr. Chairman, I urge all my col-
leagues to support our democracy by
voting for its passage.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, it gives me great pleasure to
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Louisiana (Mr. SCALISE), the most cou-
rageous Member of Congress that I
know, the man who bleeds tiger blood.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Chairman, I thank
my colleague from Illinois for those
kind comments. Go Tigers.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposi-
tion to this bill that instead of being
called For the People Act should be
called ‘‘For the Politicians Act.’’ Let’s
take a look at some of the provisions of
this bill that involve a Federal take-
over of the elections process.
First of all, section 5111 of the bill
will allow billions of dollars of tax-
payer money to be funneled into polit-
ical campaign accounts. That is your
hard-earned dollars, in many cases,
going to fund a candidate for office
that you oppose. Think about that.
Now let’s look at section 1402 of this
bill, Mr. Chairman, where they allow
felons to vote. Let’s take, for example,
a State that might have a law against
felons voting, heavily debated in the
State, where they are allowed that
ability to set their laws enshrined by
the Constitution. Here comes the Fed-
eral Government telling a State, for
example, that if somebody went to Fed-
eral prison for voter fraud, they now
have to let them be involved in the po-
litical process and vote, even though
their own State law prohibits that per-
son who was a felon for voter fraud.
One thing we can’t even get an an-
swer on—and there are many, unfortu-
nately—we can’t even get an answer on
the cost of this bill. Many estimates
are that it will be billions of dollars,
but nobody can truly tell you because
they continue to make changes after
changes without even going through
the normal committee process that
should have been done.
If you look at the felons who can
vote, think, for example, Mr. Chair-
man, a State—and many States have
laws against felons who are child mo-
lesters from going into public schools.
In many places, the polling location is
a school. Under this bill, if someone
who is convicted as a felon of molest-
ing children and is banned by that
State from going into the school, if
they show up on election day, now,
under this law, they have a hall pass.
They can go into the school because of
this new Federal law where the State
said that child molester shouldn’t be
allowed in the school.
Again, it goes on and on, the kinds of
things you can’t even get clear answers
on.
What would the cost be? Because
they tell you the felons would be able
to vote in the Federal election, but if
your State law says they can’t vote,
then you have to have multiple ballots.
If somebody shows up to vote, the
State is going to have to try to figure
this out at what cost to the State, not
only the billions it costs the tax-
payers?
This bill enshrines voter fraud in so
many different places. Many States
have voter integrity laws to make sure
that the person who votes is the person
who is the name on the roll. This says
you don’t even have to have an ID if
the State has a voter ID law. You can
show up and just sign your name. You
can say this is who I am, and you can
vote. The Federal law overrides the
State law in this case.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I yield an additional 30 sec-
onds to the gentleman from Louisiana.
Mr. SCALISE. Finally, I would like
to talk about the constitutional in-
fringements. And don’t take it from
me. Let’s take groups as divergent as
the ACLU and National Right to Life
that all cite serious First Amendment
concerns.
ACLU says provisions ‘‘unconsti-
tutionally impinge on the free speech
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.054 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2403
March 6, 2019
rights of American citizens and public
interest organizations.’’
National Right to Life: Enactment of
H.R. 1 ‘‘would not be a curb on corrup-
tion, but itself a type of corruption, an
abuse of the lawmaking power, by
which incumbent lawmakers employ
the threat of criminal sanctions . . . to
reduce the amount of private speech re-
garding the actions of the lawmakers
themselves.’’
This is a bad bill. It ought to be re-
jected.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, how
much time remains on both sides?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from California has 301⁄4 minutes re-
maining. The gentleman from Illinois
has 161⁄2 minutes remaining.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from New
Mexico (Ms. HAALAND).
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today in support of H.R. 1 because I
want America to live up to its demo-
cratic principles, and that means hav-
ing a government that really is for the
people and not just for those with the
means. This bill is about ensuring that
all voters, regardless of ZIP Code, race,
or party, can participate in our democ-
racy.
I am proud that H.R. 1 includes a bill
I introduced, the Same-Day Voter Reg-
istration Act, which will increase ac-
cess to the ballot box across the coun-
try.
Same-day registration already exists
in 17 States and the District of Colum-
bia. In those locations, more people,
not fewer, participate in elections.
I spent nearly two decades organizing
to make sure New Mexicans, including
those in Indian Country and in rural
America, have access to our democ-
racy.
This commonsense provision gets rid
of arbitrary registration deadlines,
which often fall long before the real
time needed to process voter registra-
tion applications. Same-day voter reg-
istration is one of many provisions in
H.R. 1 that will make elections more
accessible.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, this has been a long debate.
I am enjoying the discussion, enjoying
the debate. This is why we all came
here to Washington.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. JORDAN),
my good friend.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, it is bad enough that
this bill is going to tell States how to
run elections, bad enough this bill is
going to require taxpayers to finance
the elections of politicians who created
the swamp so they can get back to the
swamp, but what is most egregious
about this legislation is the attack on
free speech.
As the whip mentioned, the ACLU
has said we should vote no on this bill
because it unconstitutionally burdens
free speech and association rights. Let
me tell you how it does it. It uses our
old friend the IRS.
Remember just a few years ago the
IRS systematically targeted people for
their political beliefs. They went after
conservatives.
Now think about your First Amend-
ment liberties, your right to practice
your faith the way you want to, the
right to assemble, the right to petition
your government, freedom of the press.
What is the most fundamental lib-
erty we have under the First Amend-
ment? Your right to speak and particu-
larly to speak in a political fashion, a
political nature. That is what the IRS
went after.
This bill does this. It gets rid of the
schedule B protections that are cur-
rently in law. It says the reason the
protection of schedule B information is
important has nothing to do with vast
conspiracies on the right or left related
to so-called dark money. Rather, it
dates back to the Supreme Court’s 1958
decision NAACP v. Alabama. The Su-
preme Court formally recognized First
Amendment protection of the freedom
of association that prevented the
NAACP from being compelled to turn
over information about its members.
What this bill will do today is, when
this information has been leaked, as it
has already, everyday Americans will
continue to receive death threats, mail
containing white powder, all because
someone disagrees with what they be-
lieve.
This bill should be defeated for one
simple reason: It attacks our First
Amendment liberties, our most sacred
rights. This bill goes after it. That is
why we should vote it down, and that is
why I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, it is
my honor to yield 5 minutes to the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. CUM-
MINGS), the chairman of the House
Oversight and Reform Committee.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Chairman, I
rise in strong support of H.R. 1, the For
the People Act.
Mr. Chairman, I thank my friend,
Congressman JOHN SARBANES, for his
vision and for his tenacity in intro-
ducing this bold and historic reform
package. He has given his blood, his
sweat, and his tears, and I thank him.
This sweeping legislation would clean
up corruption in government, fight se-
cret money in politics, and make it
easier for American citizens across our
great country to vote.
I have heard this bill dismissed as a
‘‘power grab.’’ In fact, it is a power res-
toration. H.R. 1 would restore power to
the American people and break the
hold of special interests.
For example, title VIII includes a bill
that I introduced, the Executive
Branch Ethics Reform Act, which
would ban senior officials from accept-
ing bonuses and other payments from
private-sector employers in exchange
for their government service.
H.R. 1 would have prevented Gary
Cohn, President Trump’s former eco-
nomic adviser, from receiving more
than $100 million in accelerated pay-
ments from Goldman Sachs when he
left to lead the Trump administration’s
efforts to slash corporate taxes.
Title VIII also includes another bill
that I introduced, the Transition Team
Ethics Improvement Act. This legisla-
tion would require Presidential transi-
tion teams to disclose to Congress the
team members they submit to receive
security clearances and which team
members receive security clearances.
This legislation also would require
transition teams to have ethics plans
in place and to publicly disclose those
plans.
H.R. 1 gives people the power to free-
ly exercise their right to vote. I have
said quite often that when my mother
died, at 92 years old, her last words
were not, ‘‘Elijah, I love you.’’ This
former sharecropper, her last words
were: Elijah, don’t let them take away
our right to vote.
I believe that we should be doing ev-
erything in our power to make it easi-
er, not harder, for American citizens to
exercise their constitutional right.
Unfortunately, some oppose our ef-
forts. They think we should make vot-
ing more difficult by cutting back on
early voting, eliminating polling
places, and taking other steps to re-
duce the number of people who do vote.
b 1615
In some cases, they have even en-
gaged in illegal efforts to suppress the
vote and target minority communities.
Just look at what happened in North
Carolina.
In 2013, State legislators requested
data broken down by race on how resi-
dents engaged in a number of voting
practices. They then used that data to
enact legislation that restricted voting
and voter registration in five different
ways that disproportionately affected
African Americans.
You do not have to take my word.
The Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals
found that this legislation was enacted
with discriminatory intent. In fact, the
Fourth Circuit said that in North Caro-
lina legislation targeted African Amer-
icans with—they said this—‘‘almost
surgical precision.’’
We are better than that.
In Georgia, we saw actions just last
year by officials to remove people from
the voter rolls and prevent them from
registering in the first place. H.R. 1
would establish procedures to auto-
matically register people to vote, ex-
tend early voting, absentee voting, and
give additional funding to States to
maintain polling sites so that they can
do their job.
This legislation would help make it
easier for hardworking Americans to
find the time to vote by making elec-
tion day a Federal holiday and encour-
aging the private sector to follow suit.
Federal court after Federal court,
there are ongoing efforts to stop people
from voting. So I will fight until my
death to make sure that every citizen,
whether they be Republican, Democrat,
Independent, Green Party, or whatever,
has the right to vote.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.056 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2404 March 6, 2019
The American people gave this Con-
gress a mandate to restore our democ-
racy, and we will clean it up.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentle-
men from Florida (Mr. POSEY), my
good friend.
Mr. POSEY. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for yielding the opportunity
to speak about H.R. 1.
You have heard it called the ‘‘Welfare
for Politicians Act’’; you have heard it
called the ‘‘Democrat Politician Pro-
tection Act’’; and you have heard it
called a very partisan proposal to hi-
jack elections. I think it may be all
those things.
Historically, elections are based on
three principles: number one is fairness
to everybody who votes, number two is
that every vote counts, and number
three is that every voter should have
the assurance or the confidence that
their vote was counted equally and was
not compromised in one way or the
other. This bill does none of those
things. If it did, and if it was at all fair,
it would have bipartisan support.
In 2000, after the contentious election
between Bush and Gore, I was chair-
man of the elections committee in the
Florida Senate and charged with re-
forming the election laws.
Working with the minority leader at
the time, Steve Geller, we did some
historic things. We pioneered the provi-
sional ballot. We pioneered early vot-
ing. We got rid of punch cards and went
to precinct-based optical scanners that
they said would cost Republicans
100,000 votes statewide. It seems like
the Republicans knew how to vote and
the other side didn’t.
We did those things because it was
fair and it was the right thing to do.
And as a result, for the past 19 years,
our elections have worked very well
down there, except for two counties,
very highly partisan counties who
didn’t follow the rules.
The measure of credibility for elec-
tion bills is whether or not you have
bipartisan support. Our legislation
passed nearly unanimously, if not
unanimously. Here, this is very one-
sided. It is not fair. If it were fair, you
would have a lot of support from this
side.
And so I am for the other side to try
and consider fairness a little bit in this
process so we don’t go from one regime
to another, back and forth with elec-
tion law that is not stable, is not good
for the voters, is not good for the
United States of America.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from the
District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON).
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chair, I thank my
friend for yielding.
There is a reason that this bill is
H.R. 1. It shows that we are not there
yet in building a more perfect democ-
racy. Nothing illustrates that better
than H.R. 1’s findings on D.C. state-
hood. These findings document the Dis-
trict’s long adherence to all the quali-
fications for statehood.
Since the founding of the Republic,
serving in all the Nation’s wars, paying
Federal income taxes—in fact, leading
the country, per capita, in Federal in-
come taxes paid today—if anything,
H.R. 1’s findings show that the District
is overqualified for statehood—witness
the $2.8 billion surplus and its popu-
lation larger than that of two States.
Yesterday marked 200 cosponsors for
our D.C. statehood bill. Today, passage
of H.R. 1 would set a historic mile-
stone, marking the first vote for the
necessity for D.C. statehood in the 218
years the District has been the capital
of the Nation.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, it is with great pleasure I get a
chance to introduce my good friend,
whom I have known for a very long
time from Illinois.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. BOST),
and I would like to ask him to throw
his papers in the air and hit them when
he is done with his speech, too.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for yielding. I think the pa-
pers will remain on the table.
Mr. Chair, Speaker PELOSI said she
wants to get money out of politics. She
said she wants free speech. But this
sham puts more money into politics. It
doesn’t offer free speech; it offers
forced speech.
In fact, for every dollar contributed
to a candidate, the American taxpayer
will be forced to contribute 6.
Now, let me say that again. For
every dollar that is contributed to a
candidate, an American taxpayer will
be forced to contribute 6.
You heard it right, a 6-to-1 match,
whether you support a candidate or
not, whether you support their posi-
tions on life, the Second Amendment,
immigration, taxes, or anything else—
6 to 1.
The bill would also require same-day
registration, nationwide. States al-
ready have the right to determine for
themselves if they want same-day reg-
istration. My home State of Illinois
has it. But with it, can come chal-
lenges in ensuring the accuracy of a
voter’s registration information.
I believe that every single legitimate
vote needs to be counted—every single
legitimate vote—but it must be a sin-
gle vote. And we are not just talking
about one State. Multiply that by 50.
Without proper safeguards, my col-
leagues are leaving the States less ca-
pable of managing their voter systems.
That is a big problem. This is a bad
bill.
Mr. Chair, I urge the House to vote
‘‘no.’’
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. SARBANES), the prime author
of this bill.
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding and for
all her hard work on this bill.
I am concerned that there is a collec-
tive delirium that seems to have in-
fected part of this Chamber. I keep
hearing our colleagues on the other
side say that the public financing sys-
tem, the 6-to-1 matching system that
we want to set up, is taxpayer funded.
Hear this: It is not taxpayer funded.
It is not taxpayer funded. It is not tax-
payer funded.
It is lawbreaker funded.
We are setting up a fund, called the
freedom from influence fund, because
we don’t want the big money and the
special interests to exercise influence
in our campaigns anymore.
The freedom from influence fund will
be filled with dollars that come from
putting a surcharge, an assessment, on
people who break the law: corporations
who have engaged in criminal activity
or are subject to civil penalties. Cor-
porate malfeasance, that is where the
dollars will come from. The people who
are breaking the law, they are going to
fund the freedom from influence ac-
count that will be there to match small
donations.
Now, let me tell you why it is so im-
portant that small donors be the ones
that have the power.
If you are a candidate and you have
to raise money for your campaign,
right now, in order to raise the money
you need, you have to go to the deep
pocket and the PACs and the lobbyists.
And here is what happens: You start
to think like the company you keep.
So if you are hanging around with
those folks because that is where you
are raising your money, you are going
to start putting their priorities first,
not the public’s priorities.
But if we have a 6-to-1 matching sys-
tem funded by lawbreakers, not tax-
payers——
The ACTING CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield the
gentleman from Maryland an addi-
tional 1 minute.
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chair, if we
have a matching system that gives
power to small donors, now the can-
didate is going to say: If I want to raise
money from my campaign and power
my campaign, I am going to go spend
time with real people in my district. I
am going to go to a house party where
somebody can give $25 or $50, and then
that 6-to-1 match will come in and I
can power my campaign.
So instead of hanging out with the
lobbyists on K Street or with the big
money donors or with the PACs and
super-PACs, I am going to spend time
with people in my district. They are
going to tell me what their priorities
are, and then I am going to go to Wash-
ington and I am going to fight for
them.
That is why we are creating this sys-
tem: to take power away from the
PACs and the big money and the insid-
ers who are calling the shots now and
give it back to the people. That is why
this bill is called the For the People
Act.
So let’s restore their voice, give them
back the power that they deserve, and
give them their rightful ownership of
their own democracy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.058 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2405
March 6, 2019
Mr. Chair, let’s support H.R. 1.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, it is great to have the author of
the bill here on the floor.
I guess if I had a chance to ask a
question, it would be why, then, was
this new corporate malfeasance fund
put in the manager’s amendment that
was given to me 30 minutes before our
Rules testimony last night?
There are many concerns with this
bill, and a lot of those concerns hinge
upon this 6-to-1 matching program
that, in the end, is a new mandatory
spending program that will have to be
funded, have to be funded by the tax-
payers to make up the difference if cor-
porate money that is now going to be
used—that we can’t take right now as
congressional candidates—is going to
be used to fill the coffers of the cam-
paigns that this author talked about.
I had no idea that the Democrats’ so-
lution to getting corporate money out
of politics was to put more corporate
money into campaign coffers of every
Member of Congress. It doesn’t make
sense to me, which is why this bill
doesn’t make sense to me.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS),
my good friend.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS) for yielding me time.
Let me just tell you that this really
is a monstrosity of a bill, the ‘‘Demo-
cratic Politician Protection Act.’’
You see, H.R. 1 was referred to 10
committees, but only one marked it
up; 100 pages of this bill fell within the
jurisdiction of the Judiciary Com-
mittee. We had a hearing but we didn’t
get to mark it up, which I think was
designed—who knows why it was de-
signed, but we couldn’t expose all the
flaws of this bill.
Let me talk about two of them right
now, because these both are patterned
after the Arizona law, oddly enough.
The Independent Arizona Redis-
tricting Commission in Arizona, passed
by the voters, upheld by the United
States Supreme Court, and guess what.
We are not going to qualify under this
bill.
That redistricting commission pro-
duced, actually, a Democratic major-
ity, so we have a blue majority in the
house now. But I tell you what, the
registration numbers all were for the
red, but the IRC in Arizona changed
that.
But guess what. Under this bill, it is
not good enough. It is going to be
taken out of the hands of the State and
put in the hands of the Federal Govern-
ment.
b 1630
That is a violation of the Constitu-
tion and the spirit of electoral law and
redistricting throughout the country.
Let me talk about this, having heard
now that this is going to be not from
taxpayers but from lawbreakers who
are going to fund this.
Arizona has something called the
Citizens Clean Elections Commission. I
was there when that came out, funded
ostensibly by lawbreakers who, oddly
enough, are taxpayers. They are tax-
payers. And guess what else? Arizona’s
courts have said they are taxpayers
and that the whole scheme was prob-
lematic.
That is what is happening with this
particular bill. It is rife with problems
throughout, but these two problems
really are dilatory to this bill. I urge
Members to vote ‘‘no.’’
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Alabama (Mr. PALMER).
Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chairman, H.R. 1
is yet another case of Democrats at-
tempting a power grab from the States
with no regard for the Constitution and
States’ powers. The bill completely dis-
regards the fact that most States have
successfully adopted their own process
for a fair and honest and constitutional
election.
Thirty-eight States, including my
home State of Alabama, have already
implemented some type of online voter
registration, most with safeguards to
protect against fraud. Each State is
different and has unique circumstances
and challenges that only the State and
local legislators can effectively ad-
dress.
For instance, in Alabama, where we
require voter identification, our elec-
tion officials recognize the rural nature
of the State and have taken steps to
ensure that every person has a form of
ID, which is required to vote.
Alabama accepts seven different
types of ID, including a student or em-
ployee ID. They can get a voter ID card
for free. The State even goes so far as
to have a mobile ID unit that will pick
people up and take them to an ID cen-
ter at no expense.
That is why a Federal judge recently
threw out a lawsuit against the ID law
because, in the judge’s words: There is
no person who is qualified to register
to vote who cannot get a photo ID.
One of the most important require-
ments for eligibility to vote is citizen-
ship. H.R. 1 requires States to main-
tain online voter registration with no
safeguards. They can simply upload an
electronic signature without any vali-
dation through a DMV database.
Many officials from States that have
implemented online voter registration
will tell you that a huge obstacle is cy-
bersecurity. Any time parts of the
process are connected to the internet,
it opens it up to hacking attempts.
My Democratic colleagues have spent
the better part of 2 years alleging there
was Russian influence on the 2016 elec-
tion. Now they want to invite China to
the party? What about Iran and North
Korea?
Just this week, FBI Director Wray
was asked if China’s digital threat was
overblown. He responded: There is
nothing like it.
Voter fraud and registration fraud
are real threats to elections.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds
to the gentleman from Alabama.
Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chairman, the
Texas Attorney General recently in-
dicted four people as part of a vote
fraud ring funded by the Texas Demo-
cratic Party. Under the new automatic
registration scheme in California, they
admitted to registering 25,000 ineligible
voters, including noncitizens. This bill
even allows felons to register to vote,
even those who are felons for voter
fraud.
Each State is unique, with their own
circumstances and challenges. Elec-
tions are a State matter, not a Federal
matter. We should continue to allow
the States to act on their own and im-
plement policies that work best for
their State rather than cede the funda-
mental base of our liberty: our right to
choose our leaders in honest and fair
elections.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I just want to make a cou-
ple of observations and perhaps correc-
tions.
It has been alleged that somehow the
assessment on tax crimes and cor-
porate malfeasance has been trans-
formed into taxpayer money—I think
that is clearly incorrect—but that if
the money is insufficient, then the tax-
payers would be on the hook.
When we marked up the bill in the
House Administration Committee, we
outlined how the money would be re-
duced if there were not enough money
in the fund; and in section 5101(f)(3), it
talks about mandatory reductions of
payments in the voucher program. In
541(d)(2), it talks about mandatory re-
ductions in the congressional program
and Presidential and so on, if there
were insufficient funds.
So there is no way under the terms of
this bill that the taxpayers could ever
be on the hook for these funds, and I
think it is important to know that.
I want to talk a little bit about the
concern about free speech.
I am an advocate of free speech. I
think we all are and honor our Con-
stitution here in the House of Rep-
resentatives. But the ACLU has a sto-
ried history of litigating constitutional
issues. They have done good work, but
we have differed on our approach to
campaign finance law, particularly on
how to shine a light on secret, dark
money in elections.
The ACLU has opposed applying dis-
closure laws to organizations spending
money on electioneering communica-
tions, which are paid ads that mention
candidates in the days leading up to
the election.
As we have mentioned earlier, the
Court, in Citizens United, said the pub-
lic has an interest in knowing who is
speaking about a candidate before an
election and pointed out that disclo-
sure does not prevent speech. I think
that is one of the reasons why we have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.059 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2406 March 6, 2019
gotten a marvelous letter from the Na-
tional Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People, the NAACP,
which I include in the RECORD.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE,
Washington, DC, March 4, 2019.
Re NAACP strong support for H.R. 1, legisla-
tion to greatly improve and expand the
democratic voting process
Hon. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
NAACP, our nation’s oldest, largest and
most widely-recognized grassroots-based
civil rights organization, I would like to urge
you, in the strongest terms possible to sup-
port through passage H.R. 1 and to oppose
any weakening amendments. This legislation
will expand Americans’ access to the ballot
box, reduce the discriminatory influence of
big money in politics, prevent voter fraud,
and strengthen ethics rules and account-
ability for public servants. H.R. 1 is sup-
ported and celebrated by the NAACP: since
our founding in 1909, free and unfettered ac-
cess to the ballot for all eligible Americans,
and the assurance that our vote has been
counted, has been a critical driver behind all
that we do.
H.R. 1 represents a coordinated effort to
protect and promote the voting rights of all
Americans. This vital legislation includes
many of the tools the NAACP has identified
throughout our nation as improving voter
turn-out and successful voter participation:
it includes provisions to establish on-line
and automatic voter registration. H.R. 1
would require early voting in all states; vot-
ing would have to start at least 15 days be-
fore an election, including weekends. H.R. 1
would require same-day voter registration on
election-day and during early voting. Under
a provision in H.R. 1, states would be prohib-
ited from restricting an individuals’ ability
to vote by mail. H.R. 1 would require that
‘‘provisional ballots’’ be counted and pro-
vides assistance to states and localities in
improving the provisional ballot process.
The measure would prohibit voter caging,
voter deception and voter intimidation. H.R.
1 also promotes voter registration via the
internet and establishes a strict code of eth-
ics for all federally elected and appointed of-
ficials, including the President, the Vice
President, his cabinet, and every Member of
Congress, so we are not constantly dis-
tracted by the ‘‘scandal of the day.’’
H.R. 1 would also re-enfranchise ex-felony
offenders who have served their sentence and
have been released from prison. Because vot-
ing is such an integral part of being a pro-
ductive member of American society, the
NAACP has advocated strongly to allow fel-
ons who are no longer incarcerated to re-
integrate themselves into society and vote in
federal elections.
H.R. 1 also begins to fix the damage done
to the crucial 1965 Voting Rights Act by the
US Supreme Court decision in Shelby v.
Holder. The legislation specifically states
that Congress is committed to reversing the
effects of the 2013 Supreme Court decision
which effectively invalidated a requirement
that certain states and jurisdictions receive
federal preclearance on changes to voting
procedures. Prior to the Shelby decision
preclearance was required for states and
local jurisdictions that had a history of
voter discrimination.
The measure would state that Congress
should respond by modernizing the electoral
system to improve access to the ballot, en-
hance voting integrity and security, ensure
greater accountability, and restore protec-
tions for voters. Finally, but no less impor-
tantly, H.R. 1 contains strong provisions to
bring about genuine campaign finance re-
form measures which will withstand the
scrutiny of the Courts.
The NAACP strongly supports H.R. 1. This
is not a partisan issue: the right to vote
should be supported by all Americans who
believe in democracy. We should be making
voting and involvement in the democratic
process easier, not throwing up barriers
which may seem insurmountable to whole
groups of eligible voters. Should you have
any questions or comments, please do not
hesitate to contact me at my office.
Sincerely,
HILARY O. SHELTON,
Director, NAACP
Washington Bureau
and Senior Vice
President for Policy
and Advocacy.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I will not
read the entire letter, but it does say
this:
‘‘Dear Representative,
‘‘On behalf of the NAACP, our na-
tion’s oldest, largest, and most widely-
recognized grassroots-based civil rights
organization, I would like to urge you,
in the strongest terms possible, to sup-
port through passage H.R. 1 and to op-
pose any weakening amendments.’’
It goes on to say: ‘‘This legislation
will expand Americans’ access to the
ballot box, reduce the discriminatory
influence of big money in politics, pre-
vent voter fraud, and strengthen ethics
rules and accountability for public
servants. H.R. 1 is supported and cele-
brated by the NAACP.’’
I would urge us to support this bill
and listen to the advice that we have
received from the NAACP on this, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, it is interesting, my col-
league, Chairperson LOFGREN, men-
tioned the NAACP, because the next
gentleman that I am going to intro-
duce, he and I both share Springfield,
Illinois, which is known, after the 1908
race riots, to be somewhat of the birth-
place of the NAACP.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LAHOOD),
my good friend.
Mr. LAHOOD. Mr. Chairman, I want
to thank my colleague, Congressman
RODNEY DAVIS, my good friend, for his
strong leadership on this bill and his
strong leadership on the Committee on
House Administration for leading the
way on this.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today strongly
opposed to H.R. 1. Among the numer-
ous, egregious provisions of H.R. 1, I
am here to shed light on one proposal
that has increased vulnerabilities in
our election system in our home State
of Illinois.
Under H.R. 1, Democrats are pro-
posing a blanket, nationwide mandate
for States to adopt same-day registra-
tion practices with no safeguards. Once
again, my colleagues across the aisle
are advocating a Big Government solu-
tion, but, in fact, they are threatening
the integrity of our elections at every
level of government.
Coming from Illinois where same-day
registration and other lax election laws
have been passed by our Democrat-con-
trolled legislature, uncertainty has fol-
lowed. The practice of same-day reg-
istration has caused confusion for our
election administrators and has opened
the door to fraud.
Under same-day registration in Illi-
nois, an individual can arrive at their
polling place with a copy of their util-
ity bill and cast a full ballot without
being fully verified thanks to same-day
registration.
Election officials are having dif-
ficulty verifying residents in a timely
manner, particularly on college cam-
puses where students have been told
that they can use a receipt from
Jimmy John’s sub shop to confirm
their voting domicile.
Under H.R. 1, these vulnerabilities
and problems will be seen across the
country and exacerbated by provisions
that will allow individuals to use sworn
statements in place of government IDs
when registering to vote.
H.R. 1 fails to address issues our
States and others have seen with same-
day registration. We need stricter
standards for same-day registration,
but H.R. 1 fails to provide any suffi-
cient enforcement mechanisms to
verify voter registration.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds
to the gentleman from Illinois.
Mr. LAHOOD. Mr. Chairman, further-
more, H.R. 1 fails to deter bad actors
from taking advantage of the system
by not criminalizing fraudulent reg-
istrations.
Mr. Chairman, Republicans want
more registered voters. We want more
Americans to fulfill their civic duty,
but we can’t simply push legislation
that jeopardizes the integrity of our
election process and potentially under-
mines our democracy.
H.R. 1 unconstitutionally mandates a
one-size-fits-all Federal approach to
voter registration, fails to adequately
address vulnerabilities in our registra-
tion system, weaponizes the Federal
Election Commission, and, as the left-
leaning ACLU says, infringes on Amer-
icans’ free speech right.
I strongly urge a ‘‘no’’ vote.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. PELOSI), the Speaker of
the House, representing San Francisco.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding, and I
commend her and congratulate her on
her success in bringing this important
legislation to the floor of the House.
I want to salute our colleague from
Maryland, Congressman JOHN SAR-
BANES, for being a relentless and per-
sistent advocate, for honoring the Con-
stitution of the United States and giv-
ing people confidence that their voice
and their vote count as much as any-
one’s in this country.
That is what H.R. 1 is about: giving
people confidence that we can do what
we say without the influence of big,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.061 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2407
March 6, 2019
dark, special interest money weighing
in on the process.
Our Constitution, Mr. Chairman, as
you know, begins, ‘‘We the people,’’ a
beautiful statement of purpose for our
Nation. ‘‘We the people.’’
Our Founders envisioned a govern-
ment that would work for the people,
serving the people’s interests, fighting
for their aspirations, hopes, and
dreams.
We have a responsibility to honor
that vision of our Founders, honoring
our oath of office to uphold the Con-
stitution of the United States, hon-
oring the sacrifice of our men and
women in uniform for the sacrifices
that they make for our freedom and
freedom throughout the world, and
worthy of the aspirations of our chil-
dren. We can only do this if we have a
government that is committed to
transparency, to as much bipartisan-
ship as possible, and to being unifying
for our country.
In the election, the American people
voted for just that. They voted for a
Congress that would restore trans-
parency, bipartisanship, and unity and
be unifying in Washington, D.C., so
that the government would again—I
can’t say it enough—work for the peo-
ple.
On day one, reflecting the priorities
of our outstanding freshman class, our
new Democratic majority honored the
people’s trust by introducing H.R. 1,
the For the People Act.
Again, let me salute Congressman
JOHN SARBANES, the chair of our De-
mocracy Reform Task Force, who was
the godfather of this bill.
Today, we are proud to be bringing
this transformative legislation to the
floor of the House. H.R. 1—and it is
H.R. 1 because it is of primary impor-
tance—restores the people’s faith that
government will work for the people
and not the special interests.
We are ending the dominance of big,
dark, special interest money in poli-
tics.
We are ensuring clean, fair elections
with Congressman JOHN LEWIS, our
hero, with his Voter Empowerment
Act, to increase access to the ballot
box.
Democrats or Republicans or people
who are Independent, who do not reg-
ister with a party, should want every-
one to be able to vote without obsta-
cles. This legislation will remove ob-
stacles to participation. Whether ob-
stacles of closing polling places in cer-
tain neighborhoods, obstacles of reduc-
ing hours that those polling places are
open, reducing the number of days for
early voting, and the rest, it will re-
duce those obstacles.
b 1645
We also are protecting the sacred
right to vote through Congresswoman
TERRI SEWELL’s H.R. 4, which is an off-
spring of this legislation, the Voting
Rights Advancement Act, to secure,
again, and restore the Voting Rights
Act. It is part of H.R. 1, but it will be
taken up separately because of the
need to establish the constitutional
basis in an ironclad way as we go for-
ward.
I am so pleased, Mr. Chairman, and I
thank the chairwoman of the House
Administration Committee for rein-
stating the House Administration Sub-
committee on Elections led by Con-
gresswoman MARCIA FUDGE which
began its out-of-Washington hearings
in Brownsville, Texas. I was just in
Texas, and people were delighted that
Chairwoman FUDGE’s subcommittee
came there to hear the stories of voter
suppression that exists throughout the
country, especially among people who
may have a last name that may sound
foreign to some and questionable there-
fore to them, but who are American
citizens eligible to vote.
We are cleaning up corruption and
ensuring that public officials again
work for the people’s interests. You
can’t say it enough, Mr. Chairman.
We must pass this legislation so we
can break the grip of special interests.
We talk about obstacles to participa-
tion and suppression of the vote, and
we talk about what we talked about
earlier, whether it is voting, number of
polling places, number of hours, num-
ber of days, degree of identification
that is required in some areas more so
than in others and different surnames
and the rest, but one of the biggest
suppressors of the vote is the suffo-
cation of the airwaves by big, dark spe-
cial interest money. There are some
people in our country—I hope none of
them in this body—who think that the
only way to win an election is to sup-
press the vote one way or another, and
bombarding and suffocating the air-
waves with information that is not fac-
tual, by disrupting elections and by
putting out messages in the social
media that are misleading, the re-
sources that make all of this possible
are as much a voter suppressor as any-
thing you can name.
So that is why when we put forth our
For the People agenda; one, to lower
healthcare costs by reducing the cost
of prescription drugs; secondly, to in-
crease paychecks, lower healthcare
costs, bigger paychecks by building the
infrastructure of America in a green
way, people had confidence that we
could do that because H.R. 1, which was
essential to our For the People agenda,
would, again, diminish the role of big,
special interest money and increase the
voice of every person in our country,
including increase the impact of small
donor participation in elections.
When we put power back in the hands
of the American people, as this legisla-
tion does, we can make much more
progress on hard issues facing our Na-
tion, and the American people know
that. It removes a great deal of skep-
ticism that they have in politics and
government. It instills confidence that
their voice will be heard, that their
cause will be addressed, and that their
interests will be served.
Again, lowering healthcare costs by
reducing the cost of prescription drugs,
people’s voices will be heard, a big
issue in re-election; increasing pay-
checks by rebuilding the infrastructure
of America in a bold, green and modern
way; safeguarding consumer protec-
tions, workers’ rights and the rights of
the LGBTQ community; and addressing
the concerns of our beautiful Dreamers
in legislation that we will take up and
launch next week; protecting clean air
and clean water, confronting the cli-
mate crisis, and so much more will be
taken up.
Let me add that a bill that we passed
last week—which was historic in the
House—finally passing a bill for com-
monsense background checks for gun
violence prevention, again, defies the
big money in that arena.
There should be nothing partisan or
political about empowering the Amer-
ican people and making sure that gov-
ernment works for them. Our Founders
provided a vision for our country. They
wrote a constitution making us the
freest people in the world, a model for
the rest of the world that enabled peo-
ple—oh, thank God they made it
amendable so that we could ever ex-
pand power, voting rights, and the rest.
What is exciting about this Congress,
which has over 100 women in it for the
first time, is that in the course of this
Congress, we will be celebrating the
100th anniversary of women having the
right to vote. But the right to vote
must be accompanied by removing ob-
stacles to that participation, and that
is what we are doing today.
How do we answer our Founders if
one day we are meeting them in the
next life?
How do we say to them: I did every-
thing in my power to suppress the
vote?
Or do we say: Honoring your vision,
we removed every obstacle for those
who are legitimately eligible to vote to
do so and to have their vote counted as
cast?
To honor the oath we take and to
honor the people’s trust, I strongly
urge a bipartisan vote for this bill, for
the people.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I have no further speakers,
and I am ready to close.
I reserve the balance of my time, Mr.
Chairman.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, if the
gentleman would like to wrap up, I will
also wrap up.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. But
before I do, Mr. Chairman, may I in-
quire how much time is remaining.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. SCHRADER).
The gentleman has 21⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I yield myself the balance of
my time and that is not nearly enough
to talk about all the bad provisions in
this bill once again.
There are so many provisions in this
bill that many of my colleagues gra-
ciously came down to the floor to talk
about them. As a matter of fact, I have
with me a file of letters from groups
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.062 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2408 March 6, 2019
like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the ACLU, the National Right to Life,
and all others that have been out-
spoken in their opposition to this behe-
moth partisan piece of legislation.
Let me remind everybody once again:
we Republicans—there are only three
of us on the House Administration
Committee—were not consulted at all
by anyone who wrote this bill, nor by
any of the groups who were pointed out
at the press conference announcing
this piece of legislation that they
helped to write this bill. Make no bones
about it, this shell game, this nebulous
freedom from influence or whatever
fund you want to call it, the CBO esti-
mates they don’t even have enough in-
formation on it. They are estimating
the taxpayers will be on the hook for
at least $1 billion, and that goes in ad-
dition to the over $2 billion that the
rest of the bill is going to cost the tax-
payers of this country.
Now, it is interesting, I just read a
tweet—I never met the gentleman, Dan
McLaughlin, but it is a pretty good ex-
planation of what I think this bill is.
His tweet says: ‘‘Professional politi-
cians do unethical things that they’ve
written the rules to allow.’’
This bill has written the rules to
allow Members of Congress to enrich
their own campaign coffers that will
eventually be on the backs of govern-
ment and the taxpayers. This is not
why we should be here.
I am for the American voter. I sup-
port that every eligible voter have
easier ways to register to vote and get
easier access to the polls. What I am
not for is for Washington, D.C., taking
over elections and enriching the cam-
paign coffers of the people who sit in
this room.
I know what difficult elections look
like. It is the worst of partisan politics,
and it is personal to me. I know what
it looks like when people take well-in-
tentioned laws and use them to their
political advantage. I don’t want that
to happen, and I believe H.R. 1 will
allow that to happen.
We have had disagreements. I respect
the fact that my colleagues have come
here to debate this bill, but this is the
furthest thing from a bipartisan bill. I
can’t say it enough how opposed to this
bill I am.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Chairman, this is an important
bill for many reasons. We have seen all
over the United States efforts to pre-
vent Americans from being able to
vote, from moving polling places out of
a jurisdiction without any public
transportation so voters can’t get
there, to reducing early voting, to
voter ID requirements that have a dis-
parate result and disadvantage young
people. For example, in Texas you can
show your hunting license but not your
University of Texas ID. I think there is
a rationale behind that.
We have had enough. We believe that
American citizens ought to be able to
vote and that we should do everything
in Federal elections as the Constitu-
tion provides to allow those American
citizens to vote.
That is why this bill provides for at
least 15 days of early voting for Federal
elections, no-excuse absentee ballots,
that provisional ballots are treated
uniformly so a voter in one State is
treated the same way as a voter in an-
other State when they are voting for
the House of Representatives. We want
to improve access for voters with dis-
abilities and for overseas and military
voters.
We know that we are vulnerable to
hacking. We have voting machines that
are using software that is no longer
even updated. They are vulnerable to
hacking. We have got to have paper
ballots that are subject to a recount.
Much has been said about elements of
this, but one of the things that I think
is very important is the Federal con-
gressional redistricting provisions. If
there is one thing that makes Ameri-
cans upset it is politicians manipu-
lating the districts so that even if they
don’t get the votes, they get to win the
seats. That is gerrymandering. This
bill does away with it for the House of
Representatives.
It requires all States to establish
independent redistricting commissions
for the purpose of developing and en-
acting congressional redistricting
plans. It exempts States that meet the
minimum requirements, including the
State of Arizona, contrary to one of
the comments made earlier here today.
There has been a lot of discussion
about money, but I will include in the
RECORD the preliminary report we have
received from the Joint Committee on
Taxation.
The estimate of the proposed 2.75 per-
cent special assessment on criminal
penalties and civil penalties is that it
would raise $1.948 billion between 2019
and 2029 and that it would reduce the
deficit by $83 million because people
would be deterred by the additional
penalty. That is from the Joint Com-
mittee on Taxation. I didn’t make that
up.
So this bill has a lot of sound provi-
sions in it. It discloses big money so
that there is transparency, as the court
in Citizens United suggested that we
do. It empowers small donors so the big
money guys don’t own the government.
It reforms the ethics process for the
President, the Congress, and for the ju-
diciary.
I am sorry to say that some can-
didates win only when they suppress
the vote, and we have seen that happen
across the United States. We are not
going to allow that to happen. Every
American has a right to vote, to have
their vote counted and let the chips
fall where they may. That is what H.R.
1 will do.
Mr. Chairman, I urge its passage, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, I rise today
in strong support of H.R. 1, The ‘‘For the Peo-
ple Act of 2019,’’ which expands access to the
ballot box, reduces the influence of big money
in politics, and strengthens ethics rules for
public servants.
I am proud to be one of 226, co-sponsors,
and one of the original cosponsors, of H.R. 1,
which will increase public confidence in our
democracy by reducing the role of money in
politics, restoring ethical standards and integ-
rity to government, and strengthening laws to
protect voting.
Specifically, the For the People Act will:
1. Make it easier, not harder, to vote by im-
plementing automatic voter registration, requir-
ing early voting and vote by mail, committing
Congress to reauthorizing the Voting Rights
Act and ensuring the integrity of our elections
by modernizing and strengthening our voting
systems and ending partisan redistricting.
2. Reform the campaign finance system by
requiring all political organizations to disclose
large donors, updating political advertisement
laws for the digital age, establishing a public
matching system for citizen-owned elections,
and revamping the Federal Election Commis-
sion to ensure there’s a cop on the campaign
finance beat; and
3. Strengthen ethics laws to ensure that
public officials work in the public interest by
extending conflict of interest laws to the Presi-
dent and Vice President; requiring the release
of their tax returns; closing loopholes that
allow former members of Congress to avoid
cooling-off periods for lobbying; closing the re-
volving door between industry and the federal
government; and establishing a code of con-
duct for the Supreme Court.
H.R. 1 expands access to the ballot box by
taking aim at institutional barriers to voting.
This bill ensures that individuals who have
completed felony sentences have their full
rights restored and expands early voting and
simplify absentee voting; and modernize the
U.S. voting system.
Mr. Chair, this legislation and this hearing is
particularly timely because more than half a
century after the passage of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965, we are still discussing voter sup-
pression—something which should be a by-
gone relic of the past, but yet continues to dis-
enfranchise racial minorities, immigrants,
women, and young people.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was a water-
shed moment for the Civil Rights Movement—
it liberated communities of color from legal re-
strictions barring them from exercising the fun-
damental right to civic engagement and polit-
ical representation.
But uncaged by Supreme Court’s infamous
2013 decision in Shelby County v. Holder, 570
U.S. 529 (2013), which neutered the
preclearance provision of the Voting Rights
Act, 14 states, including my state of Texas,
took extreme measures to enforce new voting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.064 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2409
March 6, 2019
restrictions before the 2016 presidential elec-
tion.
It is not a coincidence that many of these
same states have experienced increasing
numbers of black and Hispanic voters in re-
cent elections.
If not for invidious, state-sponsored voter
suppression policies like discriminatory voter
ID laws, reduced early voting periods, and
voter intimidation tactics that directly or indi-
rectly target racial minorities, the 2016 presi-
dential election might have had a drastically
different outcome.
Mr. Chair, H.R. 1 must be passed because
many of the civil rights that I fought for as a
student and young lawyer have been under-
mined or been rolled back by reactionary
forces in recent years.
To add insult to injury, the Trump Adminis-
tration issued an Executive Order establishing
a so-called ‘‘Election Integrity’’ Commission to
investigate not voter suppression, but so-
called ‘‘voter fraud’’ in the 2016 election.
Trump and his followers have been unceas-
ing in their efforts to perpetuate the myth of
voter fraud, but it remains just that: a myth.
Between 2000 and 2014, there were 35
credible allegations of voter fraud out of more
than 834 million ballots cast—that is less than
1 in 28 million votes.
An extensive study by social scientists at
Dartmouth College uncovered no evidence to
support Trump’s hysterical and outrageous al-
legations of widespread voter fraud ‘‘rigging’’
the 2016 election.
Just for the record, Mr. Chair, the popular
vote of the 2016 presidential election was:
Hillary Clinton, 65,853,516.
Donald Trump, 62,884,824.
Trump’s deficit of 2.9 million was the largest
of any Electoral College winner in history by a
massive margin, and despite the allegations of
the current Administration, there have been
only 4 documented cases of voter fraud in the
2016 election.
The Voter Fraud Commission, like many of
Trump’s business schemes, was a massive
scam built on countless lies that do not hold
up to any level of scrutiny.
As Members of Congress, we should be de-
voting our time, energy, and resources ad-
dressing Russian infiltration of our election in-
frastructure and campaigns, along with other
pressing issues.
Instead of enjoying and strengthening the
protections guaranteed in the Voting Rights
Act—people of color, women, LGBTQ individ-
uals, and immigrants—have been given the
joyless, exhausting task of fending off the con-
stant barrage of attacks levelled at our com-
munities by Trump and other conspiracy theo-
rists.
Not only are we tasked with reversing the
current dismal state of voter suppression
against minorities; we are forced to refute the
blatant, propagandist lie of voter fraud.
To this end, I have been persistent in my ef-
forts to protect the rights of disenfranchised
communities in my district of inner-city Hous-
ton and across the nation.
Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have
cosponsored dozens of bills, amendments,
and resolutions seeking to improve voters’
rights at all stages and levels of the election
process.
This includes legislation aimed at:
1. Increasing voter outreach and turnout;
2. Ensuring both early and same-day reg-
istration;
3. Standardizing physical and language ac-
cessibility at polling places;
4. Expanding early voting periods;
5. Decreasing voter wait times;
6. Guaranteeing absentee ballots, especially
for displaced citizens;
7. Modernizing voting technologies and
strengthening our voter record systems;
8. Establishing the federal Election Day as
a national holiday; and
9. Condemning and criminalizing deceptive
practices, voter intimidation, and other sup-
pression tactics;
Along with many of my CBC colleagues, I
was an original cosponsor of H.R. 9, the
Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta
Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization
and Amendments Act, which became public
law on July 27, 2006.
I also authored H.R. 745 in the 110th Con-
gress, which added the legendary Barbara
Jordan to the list of civil rights trailblazers
whose memories are honored in the naming
the Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and
Amendments Act.
This bill strengthened the original Voting
Rights Act by replacing federal voting exam-
iners with federal voting observers a signifi-
cant enhancement that made it easier to safe-
guard against racially biased voter suppres-
sion tactics.
In the 114th Congress, I introduced H.R. 75,
the Coretta Scott King Mid-Decade Redis-
tricting Prohibition Act of 2015, which prohibits
states whose congressional districts have
been redistricted after a decennial census
from redrawing their district lines until the next
census.
Prejudiced redistricting, or gerrymandering
as it is more commonly known, has been used
for decades to weaken the voting power of Af-
rican Americans, Latino Americans, and other
minorities since the Civil Rights Era.
Immediately after the Shelby County ruling,
which lifted preclearance requirements for
states with histories of discrimination seeking
to change their voting laws or practices, redis-
tricting became a favorite tool for Republicans
who connived to unfairly gain 3 congressional
seats in Texas.
In the 110th Congress, I was the original
sponsor of H.R. 6778, the Ex-Offenders Voting
Rights Act of 2008, which prohibited denial of
the right to vote in a federal election on the
basis of an individual’s status as a formerly in-
carcerated person.
The Ex-Offenders Voting Rights Act sought
to reverse discriminatory voter restrictions that
disproportionately affect the African American
voting population, which continues to be tar-
geted by mass incarceration, police profiling,
and a biased criminal justice system.
Those of us who cherish the right to vote
justifiably are skeptical of Voter ID laws be-
cause we understand how these laws, like poll
taxes and literacy tests, can be used to im-
pede or negate the ability of seniors, racial
and language minorities, and young people to
cast their votes.
Voter ID laws are just one of the means that
can be used to abridge or suppress the right
to vote but there are others, including:
1. Curtailing or Eliminating Early Voting;
2. Ending Same-Day Registration;
3. Not counting provisional ballots cast in
the wrong precinct on Election Day will not
count;
4. Eliminating Teenage Pre-Registration;
5. Shortened Poll Hours;
6. Lessening the standards governing voter
challenges used by vigilantes, like the King
Street Patriots in my city of Houston, to cause
trouble at the polls;
7. ‘‘Voter Caging,’’ to suppress the turnout
of minority voters by sending non-forwardable
mail to targeted populations and, once the
mail is returned, using the returned mail to
compile lists of voters whose eligibility is then
challenged on the basis of residence under
state law; and
8. Employing targeted redistricting tech-
niques to dilute minority voting strength, nota-
bly ‘‘Cracking’’ (i.e., fragmenting and dis-
persing concentrations of minority popu-
lations); ‘‘Stacking’’ (combining concentrations
of minority voters with greater concentrations
of white populations); and ‘‘Packing’’ (i.e.,
over-concentrating minority voters in as few
districts as possible).
Mr. Chair, we must not allow our democracy
to slide back into the worst elements of this
country’s past, to stand idly by as our treas-
ured values of democracy, progress, and
equality are poisoned and dismantled.
I urge all members to join me in voting to
pass H.R. 1, the ‘‘For The People Act of
2019.’’
The Acting CHAIR. All time for gen-
eral debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on House Administra-
tion, printed in the bill, the amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute con-
sisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116–7, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of House Report
116–16, shall be considered as adopted.
The bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as an original bill for purpose of
further amendment under the 5-minute
rule and shall be considered as read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 1
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘For the Peo-
ple Act of 2019’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.014 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2410 March 6, 2019
SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS;
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) DIVISIONS.—This Act is organized into 3
divisions as follows:
(1) Division A—Voting.
(2) Division B—Campaign Finance.
(3) Division C—Ethics.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions;
table of contents.
DIVISION A—ELECTION ACCESS
TITLE I—ELECTION ACCESS
Sec. 1000. Short title; statement of policy.
Subtitle A—Voter Registration
Modernization
Sec. 1000A. Short title.
PART 1—PROMOTING INTERNET REGISTRATION
Sec. 1001. Requiring availability of Internet
for voter registration.
Sec. 1002. Use of Internet to update registra-
tion information.
Sec. 1003. Provision of election information
by electronic mail to individ-
uals registered to vote.
Sec. 1004. Clarification of requirement re-
garding necessary information
to show eligibility to vote.
Sec. 1005. Effective date.
PART 2—AUTOMATIC VOTER REGISTRATION
Sec. 1011. Short title; findings and purpose.
Sec. 1012. Automatic registration of eligible
individuals.
Sec. 1013. Contributing agency assistance in
registration.
Sec. 1014. One-time contributing agency as-
sistance in registration of eligi-
ble voters in existing records.
Sec. 1015. Voter protection and security in
automatic registration.
Sec. 1016. Registration portability and cor-
rection.
Sec. 1017. Payments and grants.
Sec. 1018. Treatment of exempt States.
Sec. 1019. Miscellaneous provisions.
Sec. 1020. Definitions.
Sec. 1021. Effective date.
PART 3—SAME DAY VOTER REGISTRATION
Sec. 1031. Same day registration.
PART 4—CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL ON BASIS OF
INTERSTATE CROSS-CHECKS
Sec. 1041. Conditions on removal of reg-
istrants from official list of eli-
gible voters on basis of inter-
state cross-checks.
PART 5—OTHER INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE
VOTER REGISTRATION
Sec. 1051. Annual reports on voter registra-
tion statistics.
PART 6—AVAILABILITY OF HAVA
REQUIREMENTS PAYMENTS
Sec. 1061. Availability of requirements pay-
ments under HAVA to cover
costs of compliance with new
requirements.
PART 7—PROHIBITING INTERFERENCE WITH
VOTER REGISTRATION
Sec. 1071. Prohibiting hindering, interfering
with, or preventing voter reg-
istration.
Sec. 1072. Establishment of best practices.
Subtitle B—Access to Voting for Individuals
With Disabilities
Sec. 1101. Requirements for States to pro-
mote access to voter registra-
tion and voting for individuals
with disabilities.
Sec. 1102. Expansion and reauthorization of
grant program to assure voting
access for individuals with dis-
abilities.
Subtitle C—Prohibiting Voter Caging
Sec. 1201. Voter caging and other question-
able challenges prohibited.
Sec. 1202. Development and adoption of best
practices for preventing voter
caging.
Subtitle D—Prohibiting Deceptive Practices
and Preventing Voter Intimidation
Sec. 1301. Short title.
Sec. 1302. Prohibition on deceptive practices
in Federal elections.
Sec. 1303. Corrective action.
Sec. 1304. Reports to Congress.
Subtitle E—Democracy Restoration
Sec. 1401. Short title.
Sec. 1402. Rights of citizens.
Sec. 1403. Enforcement.
Sec. 1404. Notification of restoration of vot-
ing rights.
Sec. 1405. Definitions.
Sec. 1406. Relation to other laws.
Sec. 1407. Federal prison funds.
Sec. 1408. Effective date.
Subtitle F—Promoting Accuracy, Integrity,
and Security Through Voter-Verified Per-
manent Paper Ballot
Sec. 1501. Short title.
Sec. 1502. Paper ballot and manual counting
requirements.
Sec. 1503. Accessibility and ballot
verification for individuals with
disabilities.
Sec. 1504. Durability and readability re-
quirements for ballots.
Sec. 1505. Effective date for new require-
ments.
Subtitle G—Provisional Ballots
Sec. 1601. Requirements for counting provi-
sional ballots; establishment of
uniform and nondiscriminatory
standards.
Subtitle H—Early Voting
Sec. 1611. Early voting.
Subtitle I—Voting by Mail
Sec. 1621. Voting by Mail.
Subtitle J—Absent Uniformed Services
Voters and Overseas Voters
Sec. 1701. Pre-election reports on avail-
ability and transmission of ab-
sentee ballots.
Sec. 1702. Enforcement.
Sec. 1703. Revisions to 45-day absentee bal-
lot transmission rule.
Sec. 1704. Use of single absentee ballot appli-
cation for subsequent elections.
Sec. 1705. Effective date.
Subtitle K—Poll Worker Recruitment and
Training
Sec. 1801. Grants to States for poll worker
recruitment and training.
Sec. 1802. State defined.
Subtitle L—Enhancement of Enforcement
Sec. 1811. Enhancement of enforcement of
Help America Vote Act of 2002.
Subtitle M—Federal Election Integrity
Sec. 1821. Prohibition on campaign activi-
ties by chief State election ad-
ministration officials.
Subtitle N—Promoting Voter Access
Through Election Administration Improve-
ments
PART 1—PROMOTING VOTER ACCESS
Sec. 1901. Treatment of institutions of high-
er education.
Sec. 1902. Minimum notification require-
ments for voters affected by
polling place changes.
Sec. 1903. Election Day holiday.
Sec. 1904. Permitting use of sworn written
statement to meet identifica-
tion requirements for voting.
Sec. 1905. Postage-free ballots.
Sec. 1906. Reimbursement for costs incurred
by States in establishing pro-
gram to track and confirm re-
ceipt of absentee ballots.
Sec. 1907. Voter information response sys-
tems and hotline.
PART 2—IMPROVEMENTS IN OPERATION OF
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
Sec. 1911. Reauthorization of Election As-
sistance Commission.
Sec. 1913. Requiring states to participate in
post-general election surveys.
Sec. 1914. Reports by National Institute of
Standards and Technology on
use of funds transferred from
Election Assistance Commis-
sion.
Sec. 1915. Recommendations to improve op-
erations of Election Assistance
Commission.
Sec. 1916. Repeal of exemption of Election
Assistance Commission from
certain government contracting
requirements.
PART 3—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 1921. Application of laws to Common-
wealth of Northern Mariana Is-
lands.
Sec. 1922. No effect on other laws.
Subtitle O—Severability
Sec. 1931. Severability.
TITLE II—ELECTION INTEGRITY
Subtitle A—Findings Reaffirming Commit-
ment of Congress to Restore the Voting
Rights Act
Sec. 2001. Findings reaffirming commitment
of Congress to restore the Vot-
ing Rights Act.
Subtitle B—Findings Relating to Native
American Voting Rights
Sec. 2101. Findings relating to Native Amer-
ican voting rights.
Subtitle C—Findings Relating to District of
Columbia Statehood
Sec. 2201. Findings relating to District of
Columbia statehood.
Subtitle D—Findings Relating to Territorial
Voting Rights
Sec. 2301. Findings relating to territorial
voting rights.
Subtitle E—Redistricting Reform
Sec. 2400. Short title; finding of constitu-
tional authority.
PART 1—REQUIREMENTS FOR CONGRESSIONAL
REDISTRICTING
Sec. 2401. Requiring congressional redis-
tricting to be conducted
through plan of independent
State commission.
Sec. 2402. Ban on mid-decade redistricting.
PART 2—INDEPENDENT REDISTRICTING
COMMISSIONS
Sec. 2411. Independent redistricting commis-
sion.
Sec. 2412. Establishment of selection pool of
individuals eligible to serve as
members of commission.
Sec. 2413. Criteria for redistricting plan by
independent commission; public
notice and input.
Sec. 2414. Establishment of related entities.
PART 3—ROLE OF COURTS IN DEVELOPMENT OF
REDISTRICTING PLANS
Sec. 2421. Enactment of plan developed by 3-
judge court.
Sec. 2422. Special rule for redistricting con-
ducted under order of Federal
court.
PART 4—ADMINISTRATIVE AND MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS
Sec. 2431. Payments to States for carrying
out redistricting.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2411
March 6, 2019
Sec. 2432. Civil enforcement.
Sec. 2433. State apportionment notice de-
fined.
Sec. 2434. No effect on elections for State
and local office.
Sec. 2435. Effective date.
Subtitle F—Saving Eligible Voters From
Voter Purging
Sec. 2501. Short title.
Sec. 2502. Conditions for removal of voters
from list of registered voters.
Subtitle G—No Effect on Authority of States
to Provide Greater Opportunities for Voting
Sec. 2601. No effect on authority of States to
provide greater opportunities
for voting.
Subtitle H—Severability
Sec. 2701. Severability.
TITLE III—ELECTION SECURITY
Sec. 3000. Short title; sense of Congress.
Subtitle A—Financial Support for Election
Infrastructure
PART 1—VOTING SYSTEM SECURITY
IMPROVEMENT GRANTS
Sec. 3001. Grants for obtaining compliant
paper ballot voting systems and
carrying out voting system se-
curity improvements.
Sec. 3002. Coordination of voting system se-
curity activities with use of re-
quirements payments and elec-
tion administration require-
ments under Help America Vote
Act of 2002.
Sec. 3003. Incorporation of definitions.
PART 2—GRANTS FOR RISK-LIMITING AUDITS
OF RESULTS OF ELECTIONS
Sec. 3011. Grants to States for conducting
risk-limiting audits of results
of elections.
Sec. 3012. GAO analysis of effects of audits.
PART 3—ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE
INNOVATION GRANT PROGRAM
Sec. 3021. Election infrastructure innovation
grant program.
Subtitle B—Security Measures
Sec. 3101. Election infrastructure designa-
tion.
Sec. 3102. Timely threat information.
Sec. 3103. Security clearance assistance for
election officials.
Sec. 3104. Security risk and vulnerability as-
sessments.
Sec. 3105. Annual reports.
Subtitle C—Enhancing Protections for
United States Democratic Institutions
Sec. 3201. National strategy to protect
United States democratic insti-
tutions.
Sec. 3202. National Commission to Protect
United States Democratic In-
stitutions.
Subtitle D—Promoting Cybersecurity
Through Improvements in Election Admin-
istration
Sec. 3301. Testing of existing voting systems
to ensure compliance with elec-
tion cybersecurity guidelines
and other guidelines.
Sec. 3302. Treatment of electronic poll books
as part of voting systems.
Sec. 3303. Pre-election reports on voting sys-
tem usage.
Sec. 3304. Streamlining collection of elec-
tion information.
Subtitle E—Preventing Election Hacking
Sec. 3401. Short title.
Sec. 3402. Election Security Bug Bounty
Program.
Sec. 3403. Definitions.
Subtitle F—Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec. 3501. Definitions.
Sec. 3502. Initial report on adequacy of re-
sources available for implemen-
tation.
Subtitle G—Severability
Sec. 3601. Severability.
DIVISION B—CAMPAIGN FINANCE
TITLE IV—CAMPAIGN FINANCE
TRANSPARENCY
Subtitle A—Findings Relating to Illicit
Money Undermining Our Democracy
Sec. 4001. Findings relating to illicit money
undermining our democracy.
Subtitle B—DISCLOSE Act
Sec. 4100. Short title.
PART 1—REGULATION OF CERTAIN POLITICAL
SPENDING
Sec. 4101. Application of ban on contribu-
tions and expenditures by for-
eign nationals to domestic cor-
porations, limited liability cor-
porations, and partnerships
that are foreign-controlled, for-
eign-influenced, and foreign-
owned.
Sec. 4102. Clarification of application of for-
eign money ban to certain dis-
bursements and activities.
PART 2—REPORTING OF CAMPAIGN-RELATED
DISBURSEMENTS
Sec. 4111. Reporting of campaign-related dis-
bursements.
Sec. 4112. Application of foreign money ban
to disbursements for campaign-
related disbursements con-
sisting of covered transfers.
Sec. 4113. Effective date.
PART 3—OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE REFORMS
Sec. 4121. Petition for certiorari.
Sec. 4122. Judicial review of actions related
to campaign finance laws.
Subtitle C—Honest Ads
Sec. 4201. Short title.
Sec. 4202. Purpose.
Sec. 4203. Findings.
Sec. 4204. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 4205. Expansion of definition of public
communication.
Sec. 4206. Expansion of definition of elec-
tioneering communication.
Sec. 4207. Application of disclaimer state-
ments to online communica-
tions.
Sec. 4208. Political record requirements for
online platforms.
Sec. 4209. Preventing contributions, expend-
itures, independent expendi-
tures, and disbursements for
electioneering communications
by foreign nationals in the form
of online advertising.
Subtitle D—Stand By Every Ad
Sec. 4301. Short title.
Sec. 4302. Stand By Every Ad.
Sec. 4303. Disclaimer requirements for com-
munications made through
prerecorded telephone calls.
Sec. 4304. No expansion of persons subject to
disclaimer requirements on
Internet communications.
Sec. 4305. Effective date.
Subtitle E—Secret Money Transparency
Sec. 4401. Repeal of restriction of use of
funds by Internal Revenue
Service to bring transparency
to political activity of certain
nonprofit organizations.
Subtitle F—Shareholder Right-to-Know
Sec. 4501. Repeal of restriction on use of
funds by Securities and Ex-
change Commission to ensure
shareholders of corporations
have knowledge of corporation
political activity.
Subtitle G—Disclosure of Political Spending
by Government Contractors
Sec. 4601. Repeal of restriction on use of
funds to require disclosure of
political spending by govern-
ment contractors.
Subtitle H—Limitation and Disclosure Re-
quirements for Presidential Inaugural
Committees
Sec. 4701. Short title.
Sec. 4702. Limitations and disclosure of cer-
tain donations to, and disburse-
ments by, Inaugural Commit-
tees.
Subtitle I—Severability
Sec. 4801. Severability.
TITLE V—CAMPAIGN FINANCE
EMPOWERMENT
Subtitle A—Findings Relating to Citizens
United Decision
Sec. 5001. Findings relating to Citizens
United decision.
Subtitle B—Congressional Elections
Sec. 5100. Short title.
PART 1—MY VOICE VOUCHER PILOT PROGRAM
Sec. 5101. Establishment of pilot program.
Sec. 5102. Voucher program described.
Sec. 5103. Reports.
Sec. 5104. Definitions.
PART 2—SMALL DOLLAR FINANCING OF
CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
Sec. 5111. Benefits and eligibility require-
ments for candidates.
Sec. 5112. Contributions and expenditures by
multicandidate and political
party committees on behalf of
participating candidates.
Sec. 5113. Prohibiting use of contributions
by participating candidates for
purposes other than campaign
for election.
Sec. 5114. Effective date.
Subtitle C—Presidential Elections
Sec. 5200. Short title.
PART 1—PRIMARY ELECTIONS
Sec. 5201. Increase in and modifications to
matching payments.
Sec. 5202. Eligibility requirements for
matching payments.
Sec. 5203. Repeal of expenditure limitations.
Sec. 5204. Period of availability of matching
payments.
Sec. 5205. Examination and audits of match-
able contributions.
Sec. 5206. Modification to limitation on con-
tributions for Presidential pri-
mary candidates.
Sec. 5207. Use of Freedom From Influence
Fund as source of payments.
PART 2—GENERAL ELECTIONS
Sec. 5211. Modification of eligibility require-
ments for public financing.
Sec. 5212. Repeal of expenditure limitations
and use of qualified campaign
contributions.
Sec. 5213. Matching payments and other
modifications to payment
amounts.
Sec. 5214. Increase in limit on coordinated
party expenditures.
Sec. 5215. Establishment of uniform date for
release of payments.
Sec. 5216. Amounts in Presidential Election
Campaign Fund.
Sec. 5217. Use of general election payments
for general election legal and
accounting compliance.
Sec. 5218. Use of Freedom From Influence
Fund as source of payments.
PART 3—EFFECTIVE DATE
Sec. 5221. Effective date.
Subtitle D—Personal Use Services as
Authorized Campaign Expenditures
Sec. 5301. Short title; findings; purpose.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2412 March 6, 2019
Sec. 5302. Treatment of payments for child
care and other personal use
services as authorized cam-
paign expenditure.
Subtitle E—Severability
Sec. 5401. Severability.
TITLE VI—CAMPAIGN FINANCE
OVERSIGHT
Subtitle A—Restoring Integrity to America’s
Elections
Sec. 6001. Short title.
Sec. 6002. Membership of Federal Election
Commission.
Sec. 6003. Assignment of powers to Chair of
Federal Election Commission.
Sec. 6004. Revision to enforcement process.
Sec. 6005. Permitting appearance at hearings
on requests for advisory opin-
ions by persons opposing the re-
quests.
Sec. 6006. Permanent extension of adminis-
trative penalty authority.
Sec. 6007. Restrictions on ex parte commu-
nications.
Sec. 6008. Effective date; transition.
Subtitle B—Stopping Super PAC-Candidate
Coordination
Sec. 6101. Short title.
Sec. 6102. Clarification of treatment of co-
ordinated expenditures as con-
tributions to candidates.
Sec. 6103. Clarification of ban on fundraising
for super PACs by Federal can-
didates and officeholders.
Subtitle C—Severability
Sec. 6201. Severability.
DIVISION C—ETHICS
TITLE VII—ETHICAL STANDARDS
Subtitle A—Supreme Court Ethics
Sec. 7001. Code of conduct for Federal
judges.
Subtitle B—Foreign Agents Registration
Sec. 7101. Establishment of FARA investiga-
tion and enforcement unit
within Department of Justice.
Sec. 7102. Authority to impose civil money
penalties.
Sec. 7103. Disclosure of transactions involv-
ing things of financial value
conferred on officeholders.
Sec. 7104. Ensuring online access to registra-
tion statements.
Subtitle C—Lobbying Disclosure Reform
Sec. 7201. Expanding scope of individuals
and activities subject to re-
quirements of Lobbying Disclo-
sure Act of 1995.
Subtitle D—Recusal of Presidential
Appointees
Sec. 7301. Recusal of appointees.
Subtitle E—Severability
Sec. 7401. Severability.
TITLE VIII—ETHICS REFORMS FOR THE
PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENT, AND
FEDERAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Subtitle A—Executive Branch Conflict of
Interest
Sec. 8001. Short title.
Sec. 8002. Restrictions on private sector pay-
ment for government service.
Sec. 8003. Requirements relating to slowing
the revolving door.
Sec. 8004. Prohibition of procurement offi-
cers accepting employment
from government contractors.
Sec. 8005. Revolving door restrictions on em-
ployees moving into the private
sector.
Subtitle B—Presidential Conflicts of Interest
Sec. 8011. Short title.
Sec. 8012. Divestiture of personal financial
interests of the President and
Vice President that pose a po-
tential conflict of interest.
Sec. 8013. Initial financial disclosure.
Sec. 8014. Contracts by the President or Vice
President.
Subtitle C—White House Ethics
Transparency
Sec. 8021. Short title.
Sec. 8022. Procedure for waivers and author-
izations relating to ethics re-
quirements.
Subtitle D—Executive Branch Ethics
Enforcement
Sec. 8031. Short title.
Sec. 8032. Reauthorization of the Office of
Government Ethics.
Sec. 8033. Tenure of the Director of the Of-
fice of Government Ethics.
Sec. 8034. Duties of Director of the Office of
Government Ethics.
Sec. 8035. Agency Ethics Officials Training
and Duties.
Subtitle E—Conflicts From Political
Fundraising
Sec. 8041. Short title.
Sec. 8042. Disclosure of certain types of con-
tributions.
Subtitle F—Transition Team Ethics
Sec. 8051. Short title.
Sec. 8052. Presidential transition ethics pro-
grams.
Subtitle G—Ethics Pledge For Senior
Executive Branch Employees
Sec. 8061. Short title.
Sec. 8062. Ethics pledge requirement for sen-
ior executive branch employees.
Subtitle H—Severability
Sec. 8071. Severability.
TITLE IX—CONGRESSIONAL ETHICS
REFORM
Subtitle A—Requiring Members of Congress
to Reimburse Treasury for Amounts Paid
as Settlements and Awards Under Congres-
sional Accountability Act of 1995
Sec. 9001. Requiring Members of Congress to
reimburse Treasury for
amounts paid as settlements
and awards under Congressional
Accountability Act of 1995 in
all cases of employment dis-
crimination acts by Members.
Subtitle B—Conflicts of Interests
Sec. 9101. Prohibiting Members of House of
Representatives from serving
on boards of for-profit entities.
Sec. 9102. Conflict of interest rules for Mem-
bers of Congress and congres-
sional staff.
Sec. 9103. Exercise of rulemaking powers.
Subtitle C—Campaign Finance and Lobbying
Disclosure
Sec. 9201. Short title.
Sec. 9202. Requiring disclosure in certain re-
ports filed with Federal Elec-
tion Commission of persons
who are registered lobbyists.
Sec. 9203. Effective date.
Subtitle D—Access to Congressionally
Mandated Reports
Sec. 9301. Short title.
Sec. 9302. Definitions.
Sec. 9303. Establishment of online portal for
congressionally mandated re-
ports.
Sec. 9304. Federal agency responsibilities.
Sec. 9305. Removing and altering reports.
Sec. 9306. Relationship to the Freedom of In-
formation Act.
Sec. 9307. Implementation.
Subtitle E—Severability
Sec. 9401. Severability.
TITLE X—PRESIDENTIAL AND VICE
PRESIDENTIAL TAX TRANSPARENCY
Sec. 10001. Presidential and Vice Presi-
dential tax transparency.
DIVISION A—ELECTION ACCESS
TITLE I—ELECTION ACCESS
Sec. 1000. Short title; statement of policy.
Subtitle A—Voter Registration
Modernization
Sec. 1000A. Short title.
PART 1—PROMOTING INTERNET REGISTRATION
Sec. 1001. Requiring availability of Internet
for voter registration.
Sec. 1002. Use of Internet to update registra-
tion information.
Sec. 1003. Provision of election information
by electronic mail to individ-
uals registered to vote.
Sec. 1004. Clarification of requirement re-
garding necessary information
to show eligibility to vote.
Sec. 1005. Effective date.
PART 2—AUTOMATIC VOTER REGISTRATION
Sec. 1011. Short title; findings and purpose.
Sec. 1012. Automatic registration of eligible
individuals.
Sec. 1013. Contributing agency assistance in
registration.
Sec. 1014. One-time contributing agency as-
sistance in registration of eligi-
ble voters in existing records.
Sec. 1015. Voter protection and security in
automatic registration.
Sec. 1016. Registration portability and cor-
rection.
Sec. 1017. Payments and grants.
Sec. 1018. Treatment of exempt States.
Sec. 1019. Miscellaneous provisions.
Sec. 1020. Definitions.
Sec. 1021. Effective date.
PART 3—SAME DAY VOTER REGISTRATION
Sec. 1031. Same day registration.
PART 4—CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL ON BASIS OF
INTERSTATE CROSS-CHECKS
Sec. 1041. Conditions on removal of reg-
istrants from official list of eli-
gible voters on basis of inter-
state cross-checks.
PART 5—OTHER INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE
VOTER REGISTRATION
Sec. 1051. Annual reports on voter registra-
tion statistics.
PART 6—AVAILABILITY OF HAVA
REQUIREMENTS PAYMENTS
Sec. 1061. Availability of requirements pay-
ments under HAVA to cover
costs of compliance with new
requirements.
PART 7—PROHIBITING INTERFERENCE WITH
VOTER REGISTRATION
Sec. 1071. Prohibiting hindering, interfering
with, or preventing voter reg-
istration.
Sec. 1072. Establishment of best practices.
Subtitle B—Access to Voting for Individuals
With Disabilities
Sec. 1101. Requirements for States to pro-
mote access to voter registra-
tion and voting for individuals
with disabilities.
Sec. 1102. Expansion and reauthorization of
grant program to assure voting
access for individuals with dis-
abilities.
Subtitle C—Prohibiting Voter Caging
Sec. 1201. Voter caging and other question-
able challenges prohibited.
Sec. 1202. Development and adoption of best
practices for preventing voter
caging.
Subtitle D—Prohibiting Deceptive Practices
and Preventing Voter Intimidation
Sec. 1301. Short title.
Sec. 1302. Prohibition on deceptive practices
in Federal elections.
Sec. 1303. Corrective action.
Sec. 1304. Reports to Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2413
March 6, 2019
Subtitle E—Democracy Restoration
Sec. 1401. Short title.
Sec. 1402. Rights of citizens.
Sec. 1403. Enforcement.
Sec. 1404. Notification of restoration of vot-
ing rights.
Sec. 1405. Definitions.
Sec. 1406. Relation to other laws.
Sec. 1407. Federal prison funds.
Sec. 1408. Effective date.
Subtitle F—Promoting Accuracy, Integrity,
and Security Through Voter-Verified Per-
manent Paper Ballot
Sec. 1501. Short title.
Sec. 1502. Paper ballot and manual counting
requirements.
Sec. 1503. Accessibility and ballot
verification for individuals with
disabilities.
Sec. 1504. Durability and readability re-
quirements for ballots.
Sec. 1505. Effective date for new require-
ments.
Subtitle G—Provisional Ballots
Sec. 1601. Requirements for counting provi-
sional ballots; establishment of
uniform and nondiscriminatory
standards.
Subtitle H—Early Voting
Sec. 1611. Early voting.
Subtitle I—Voting by Mail
Sec. 1621. Voting by Mail.
Subtitle J—Absent Uniformed Services
Voters and Overseas Voters
Sec. 1701. Pre-election reports on avail-
ability and transmission of ab-
sentee ballots.
Sec. 1702. Enforcement.
Sec. 1703. Revisions to 45-day absentee bal-
lot transmission rule.
Sec. 1704. Use of single absentee ballot appli-
cation for subsequent elections.
Sec. 1705. Effective date.
Subtitle K—Poll Worker Recruitment and
Training
Sec. 1801. Grants to States for poll worker
recruitment and training.
Sec. 1802. State defined.
Subtitle L—Enhancement of Enforcement
Sec. 1811. Enhancement of enforcement of
Help America Vote Act of 2002.
Subtitle M—Federal Election Integrity
Sec. 1821. Prohibition on campaign activi-
ties by chief State election ad-
ministration officials.
Subtitle N—Promoting Voter Access
Through Election Administration Improve-
ments
PART 1—PROMOTING VOTER ACCESS
Sec. 1901. Treatment of institutions of high-
er education.
Sec. 1902. Minimum notification require-
ments for voters affected by
polling place changes.
Sec. 1903. Election Day holiday.
Sec. 1904. Permitting use of sworn written
statement to meet identifica-
tion requirements for voting.
Sec. 1905. Postage-free ballots.
Sec. 1906. Reimbursement for costs incurred
by States in establishing pro-
gram to track and confirm re-
ceipt of absentee ballots.
Sec. 1907. Voter information response sys-
tems and hotline.
PART 2—IMPROVEMENTS IN OPERATION OF
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
Sec. 1911. Reauthorization of Election As-
sistance Commission.
Sec. 1913. Requiring states to participate in
post-general election surveys.
Sec. 1914. Reports by National Institute of
Standards and Technology on
use of funds transferred from
Election Assistance Commis-
sion.
Sec. 1915. Recommendations to improve op-
erations of Election Assistance
Commission.
Sec. 1916. Repeal of exemption of Election
Assistance Commission from
certain government contracting
requirements.
PART 3—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 1921. Application of laws to Common-
wealth of Northern Mariana Is-
lands.
Sec. 1922. No effect on other laws.
Subtitle O—Severability
Sec. 1931. Severability.
SEC. 1000. SHORT TITLE; STATEMENT OF POLICY.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This title may be cited
as the ‘‘Voter Empowerment Act of 2019’’.
(b) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It is the policy
of the United States that—
(1) all eligible citizens of the United States
should access and exercise their constitu-
tional right to vote in a free, fair, and timely
manner; and
(2) the integrity, security, and account-
ability of the voting process must be vigi-
lantly protected, maintained, and enhanced
in order to protect and preserve electoral
and participatory democracy in the United
States.
Subtitle A—Voter Registration Modernization
SEC. 1000A. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Voter
Registration Modernization Act of 2019’’.
PART 1—PROMOTING INTERNET
REGISTRATION
SEC. 1001. REQUIRING AVAILABILITY OF INTER-
NET FOR VOTER REGISTRATION.
(a) REQUIRING AVAILABILITY OF INTERNET
FOR REGISTRATION.—The National Voter Reg-
istration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.)
is amended by inserting after section 6 the
following new section:
‘‘SEC. 6A. INTERNET REGISTRATION.
‘‘(a) REQUIRING AVAILABILITY OF INTERNET
FOR ONLINE REGISTRATION.—
‘‘(1) AVAILABILITY OF ONLINE REGISTRATION
AND CORRECTION OF EXISTING REGISTRATION
INFORMATION.—Each State, acting through
the chief State election official, shall ensure
that the following services are available to
the public at any time on the official public
websites of the appropriate State and local
election officials in the State, in the same
manner and subject to the same terms and
conditions as the services provided by voter
registration agencies under section 7(a):
‘‘(A) Online application for voter registra-
tion.
‘‘(B) Online assistance to applicants in ap-
plying to register to vote.
‘‘(C) Online completion and submission by
applicants of the mail voter registration ap-
plication form prescribed by the Election As-
sistance Commission pursuant to section
9(a)(2), including assistance with providing a
signature as required under subsection (c).
‘‘(D) Online receipt of completed voter reg-
istration applications.
‘‘(b) ACCEPTANCE OF COMPLETED APPLICA-
TIONS.—A State shall accept an online voter
registration application provided by an indi-
vidual under this section, and ensure that
the individual is registered to vote in the
State, if—
‘‘(1) the individual meets the same voter
registration requirements applicable to indi-
viduals who register to vote by mail in ac-
cordance with section 6(a)(1) using the mail
voter registration application form pre-
scribed by the Election Assistance Commis-
sion pursuant to section 9(a)(2); and
‘‘(2) the individual meets the requirements
of subsection (c) to provide a signature in
electronic form (but only in the case of ap-
plications submitted during or after the sec-
ond year in which this section is in effect in
the State).
‘‘(c) SIGNATURE REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, an individual meets the requirements
of this subsection as follows:
‘‘(A) In the case of an individual who has a
signature on file with a State agency, includ-
ing the State motor vehicle authority, that
is required to provide voter registration
services under this Act or any other law, the
individual consents to the transfer of that
electronic signature.
‘‘(B) If subparagraph (A) does not apply,
the individual submits with the application
an electronic copy of the individual’s hand-
written signature through electronic means.
‘‘(C) If subparagraph (A) and subparagraph
(B) do not apply, the individual executes a
computerized mark in the signature field on
an online voter registration application, in
accordance with reasonable security meas-
ures established by the State, but only if the
State accepts such mark from the individual.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF INDIVIDUALS UNABLE TO
MEET REQUIREMENT.—If an individual is un-
able to meet the requirements of paragraph
(1), the State shall—
‘‘(A) permit the individual to complete all
other elements of the online voter registra-
tion application;
‘‘(B) permit the individual to provide a sig-
nature at the time the individual requests a
ballot in an election (whether the individual
requests the ballot at a polling place or re-
quests the ballot by mail); and
‘‘(C) if the individual carries out the steps
described in subparagraph (A) and subpara-
graph (B), ensure that the individual is reg-
istered to vote in the State.
‘‘(3) NOTICE.—The State shall ensure that
individuals applying to register to vote on-
line are notified of the requirements of para-
graph (1) and of the treatment of individuals
unable to meet such requirements, as de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
‘‘(d) CONFIRMATION AND DISPOSITION.—
‘‘(1) CONFIRMATION OF RECEIPT.—Upon the
online submission of a completed voter reg-
istration application by an individual under
this section, the appropriate State or local
election official shall send the individual a
notice confirming the State’s receipt of the
application and providing instructions on
how the individual may check the status of
the application.
‘‘(2) NOTICE OF DISPOSITION.—Not later than
7 days after the appropriate State or local
election official has approved or rejected an
application submitted by an individual under
this section, the official shall send the indi-
vidual a notice of the disposition of the ap-
plication.
‘‘(3) METHOD OF NOTIFICATION.—The appro-
priate State or local election official shall
send the notices required under this sub-
section by regular mail, and, in the case of
an individual who has provided the official
with an electronic mail address, by both
electronic mail and regular mail.
‘‘(e) PROVISION OF SERVICES IN NON-
PARTISAN MANNER.—The services made avail-
able under subsection (a) shall be provided in
a manner that ensures that, consistent with
section 7(a)(5)—
‘‘(1) the online application does not seek to
influence an applicant’s political preference
or party registration; and
‘‘(2) there is no display on the website pro-
moting any political preference or party al-
legiance, except that nothing in this para-
graph may be construed to prohibit an appli-
cant from registering to vote as a member of
a political party.
‘‘(f) PROTECTION OF SECURITY OF INFORMA-
TION.—In meeting the requirements of this
section, the State shall establish appropriate
technological security measures to prevent
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2414 March 6, 2019
to the greatest extent practicable any unau-
thorized access to information provided by
individuals using the services made available
under subsection (a).
‘‘(g) ACCESSIBILITY OF SERVICES.—A state
shall ensure that the services made available
under this section are made available to in-
dividuals with disabilities to the same extent
as services are made available to all other
individuals.
‘‘(h) USE OF ADDITIONAL TELEPHONE-BASED
SYSTEM.—A State shall make the services
made available online under subsection (a)
available through the use of an automated
telephone-based system, subject to the same
terms and conditions applicable under this
section to the services made available on-
line, in addition to making the services
available online in accordance with the re-
quirements of this section.
‘‘(i) NONDISCRIMINATION AMONG REGISTERED
VOTERS USING MAIL AND ONLINE REGISTRA-
TION.—In carrying out this Act, the Help
America Vote Act of 2002, or any other Fed-
eral, State, or local law governing the treat-
ment of registered voters in the State or the
administration of elections for public office
in the State, a State shall treat a registered
voter who registered to vote online in ac-
cordance with this section in the same man-
ner as the State treats a registered voter
who registered to vote by mail.’’.
(b) SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS
USING ONLINE REGISTRATION.—
(1) TREATMENT AS INDIVIDUALS REGISTERING
TO VOTE BY MAIL FOR PURPOSES OF FIRST-TIME
VOTER IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—Sec-
tion 303(b)(1)(A) of the Help America Vote
Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21083(b)(1)(A)) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘by mail’’ and inserting ‘‘by
mail or online under section 6A of the Na-
tional Voter Registration Act of 1993’’.
(2) REQUIRING SIGNATURE FOR FIRST-TIME
VOTERS IN JURISDICTION.—Section 303(b) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 21083(b)) is amended—
(A) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (6); and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(5) SIGNATURE REQUIREMENTS FOR FIRST-
TIME VOTERS USING ONLINE REGISTRATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A State shall, in a uni-
form and nondiscriminatory manner, require
an individual to meet the requirements of
subparagraph (B) if—
‘‘(i) the individual registered to vote in the
State online under section 6A of the Na-
tional Voter Registration Act of 1993; and
‘‘(ii) the individual has not previously
voted in an election for Federal office in the
State.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—An individual meets
the requirements of this subparagraph if—
‘‘(i) in the case of an individual who votes
in person, the individual provides the appro-
priate State or local election official with a
handwritten signature; or
‘‘(ii) in the case of an individual who votes
by mail, the individual submits with the bal-
lot a handwritten signature.
‘‘(C) INAPPLICABILITY.—Subparagraph (A)
does not apply in the case of an individual
who is—
‘‘(i) entitled to vote by absentee ballot
under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens
Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20302 et seq.);
‘‘(ii) provided the right to vote otherwise
than in person under section 3(b)(2)(B)(ii) of
the Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and
Handicapped Act (52 U.S.C. 20102(b)(2)(B)(ii));
or
‘‘(iii) entitled to vote otherwise than in
person under any other Federal law.’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
EFFECTIVE DATE.—Section 303(d)(2)(A) of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 21083(d)(2)(A)) is amended by
striking ‘‘Each State’’ and inserting ‘‘Except
as provided in subsection (b)(5), each State’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) TIMING OF REGISTRATION.—Section
8(a)(1) of the National Voter Registration
Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20507(a)(1)) is amend-
ed—
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of sub-
paragraph (C);
(B) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as
subparagraph (E); and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) in the case of online registration
through the official public website of an
election official under section 6A, if the valid
voter registration application is submitted
online not later than the lesser of 30 days, or
the period provided by State law, before the
date of the election (as determined by treat-
ing the date on which the application is sent
electronically as the date on which it is sub-
mitted); and’’.
(2) INFORMING APPLICANTS OF ELIGIBILITY
REQUIREMENTS AND PENALTIES.—Section
8(a)(5) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20507(a)(5)) is
amended by striking ‘‘and 7’’ and inserting
‘‘6A, and 7’’.
SEC. 1002. USE OF INTERNET TO UPDATE REG-
ISTRATION INFORMATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) UPDATES TO INFORMATION CONTAINED ON
COMPUTERIZED STATEWIDE VOTER REGISTRA-
TION LIST.—Section 303(a) of the Help Amer-
ica Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21083(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(6) USE OF INTERNET BY REGISTERED VOT-
ERS TO UPDATE INFORMATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The appropriate State
or local election official shall ensure that
any registered voter on the computerized list
may at any time update the voter’s registra-
tion information, including the voter’s ad-
dress and electronic mail address, online
through the official public website of the
election official responsible for the mainte-
nance of the list, so long as the voter attests
to the contents of the update by providing a
signature in electronic form in the same
manner required under section 6A(c) of the
National Voter Registration Act of 1993.
‘‘(B) PROCESSING OF UPDATED INFORMATION
BY ELECTION OFFICIALS.—If a registered voter
updates registration information under sub-
paragraph (A), the appropriate State or local
election official shall—
‘‘(i) revise any information on the comput-
erized list to reflect the update made by the
voter; and
‘‘(ii) if the updated registration informa-
tion affects the voter’s eligibility to vote in
an election for Federal office, ensure that
the information is processed with respect to
the election if the voter updates the informa-
tion not later than the lesser of 7 days, or
the period provided by State law, before the
date of the election.
‘‘(C) CONFIRMATION AND DISPOSITION.—
‘‘(i) CONFIRMATION OF RECEIPT.—Upon the
online submission of updated registration in-
formation by an individual under this para-
graph, the appropriate State or local elec-
tion official shall send the individual a no-
tice confirming the State’s receipt of the up-
dated information and providing instructions
on how the individual may check the status
of the update.
‘‘(ii) NOTICE OF DISPOSITION.—Not later
than 7 days after the appropriate State or
local election official has accepted or re-
jected updated information submitted by an
individual under this paragraph, the official
shall send the individual a notice of the dis-
position of the update.
‘‘(iii) METHOD OF NOTIFICATION.—The appro-
priate State or local election official shall
send the notices required under this subpara-
graph by regular mail, and, in the case of an
individual who has requested that the State
provide voter registration and voting infor-
mation through electronic mail, by both
electronic mail and regular mail.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
EFFECTIVE DATE.—Section 303(d)(1)(A) of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 21083(d)(1)(A)) is amended by
striking ‘‘subparagraph (B)’’ and inserting
‘‘subparagraph (B) and subsection (a)(6)’’.
(b) ABILITY OF REGISTRANT TO USE ONLINE
UPDATE TO PROVIDE INFORMATION ON RESI-
DENCE.—Section 8(d)(2)(A) of the National
Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C.
20507(d)(2)(A)) is amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by inserting after
‘‘return the card’’ the following: ‘‘or update
the registrant’s information on the comput-
erized Statewide voter registration list using
the online method provided under section
303(a)(6) of the Help America Vote Act of
2002’’; and
(2) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘re-
turned,’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘re-
turned or if the registrant does not update
the registrant’s information on the comput-
erized Statewide voter registration list using
such online method,’’.
SEC. 1003. PROVISION OF ELECTION INFORMA-
TION BY ELECTRONIC MAIL TO INDI-
VIDUALS REGISTERED TO VOTE.
(a) INCLUDING OPTION ON VOTER REGISTRA-
TION APPLICATION TO PROVIDE E–MAIL AD-
DRESS AND RECEIVE INFORMATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9(b) of the Na-
tional Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52
U.S.C. 20508(b)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (3);
(B) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (4) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(5) shall include a space for the applicant
to provide (at the applicant’s option) an elec-
tronic mail address, together with a state-
ment that, if the applicant so requests, in-
stead of using regular mail the appropriate
State and local election officials shall pro-
vide to the applicant, through electronic
mail sent to that address, the same voting
information (as defined in section 302(b)(2) of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002) which the
officials would provide to the applicant
through regular mail.’’.
(2) PROHIBITING USE FOR PURPOSES UNRE-
LATED TO OFFICIAL DUTIES OF ELECTION OFFI-
CIALS.—Section 9 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20508)
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(c) PROHIBITING USE OF ELECTRONIC MAIL
ADDRESSES FOR OTHER THAN OFFICIAL PUR-
POSES.—The chief State election official
shall ensure that any electronic mail address
provided by an applicant under subsection
(b)(5) is used only for purposes of carrying
out official duties of election officials and is
not transmitted by any State or local elec-
tion official (or any agent of such an official,
including a contractor) to any person who
does not require the address to carry out
such official duties and who is not under the
direct supervision and control of a State or
local election official.’’.
(b) REQUIRING PROVISION OF INFORMATION
BY ELECTION OFFICIALS.—Section 302(b) of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21082(b)) is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) PROVISION OF OTHER INFORMATION BY
ELECTRONIC MAIL.—If an individual who is a
registered voter has provided the State or
local election official with an electronic
mail address for the purpose of receiving vot-
ing information (as described in section
9(b)(5) of the National Voter Registration
Act of 1993), the appropriate State or local
election official, through electronic mail
transmitted not later than 7 days before the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2415
March 6, 2019
date of the election for Federal office in-
volved, shall provide the individual with in-
formation on how to obtain the following in-
formation by electronic means:
‘‘(A) The name and address of the polling
place at which the individual is assigned to
vote in the election.
‘‘(B) The hours of operation for the polling
place.
‘‘(C) A description of any identification or
other information the individual may be re-
quired to present at the polling place.’’.
SEC. 1004. CLARIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT RE-
GARDING NECESSARY INFORMATION
TO SHOW ELIGIBILITY TO VOTE.
Section 8 of the National Voter Registra-
tion Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20507) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (j) as sub-
section (k); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (i) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(j) REQUIREMENT FOR STATE TO REGISTER
APPLICANTS PROVIDING NECESSARY INFORMA-
TION TO SHOW ELIGIBILITY TO VOTE.—For
purposes meeting the requirement of sub-
section (a)(1) that an eligible applicant is
registered to vote in an election for Federal
office within the deadlines required under
such subsection, the State shall consider an
applicant to have provided a ‘valid voter reg-
istration form’ if—
‘‘(1) the applicant has substantially com-
pleted the application form and attested to
the statement required by section 9(b)(2);
and
‘‘(2) in the case of an applicant who reg-
isters to vote online in accordance with sec-
tion 6A, the applicant provides a signature in
accordance with subsection (c) of such sec-
tion.’’.
SEC. 1005. EFFECTIVE DATE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), the amendments made by this
part (other than the amendments made by
section 1004) shall take effect January 1,
2020.
(b) WAIVER.—Subject to the approval of the
Election Assistance Commission, if a State
certifies to the Election Assistance Commis-
sion that the State will not meet the dead-
line referred to in subsection (a) because of
extraordinary circumstances and includes in
the certification the reasons for the failure
to meet the deadline, subsection (a) shall
apply to the State as if the reference in such
subsection to ‘‘January 1, 2020’’ were a ref-
erence to ‘‘January 1, 2022’’.
PART 2—AUTOMATIC VOTER
REGISTRATION
SEC. 1011. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS AND PUR-
POSE.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This part may be cited
as the ‘‘Automatic Voter Registration Act of
2019’’.
(b) FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.—
(1) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(A) the right to vote is a fundamental right
of citizens of the United States;
(B) it is the responsibility of the State and
Federal Governments to ensure that every
eligible citizen is registered to vote;
(C) existing voter registration systems can
be inaccurate, costly, inaccessible and con-
fusing, with damaging effects on voter par-
ticipation in elections and disproportionate
impacts on young people, persons with dis-
abilities, and racial and ethnic minorities;
and
(D) voter registration systems must be up-
dated with 21st Century technologies and
procedures to maintain their security.
(2) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of this
part—
(A) to establish that it is the responsibility
of government at every level to ensure that
all eligible citizens are registered to vote;
(B) to enable the State and Federal Gov-
ernments to register all eligible citizens to
vote with accurate, cost-efficient, and up-to-
date procedures;
(C) to modernize voter registration and list
maintenance procedures with electronic and
Internet capabilities; and
(D) to protect and enhance the integrity,
accuracy, efficiency, and accessibility of the
electoral process for all eligible citizens.
SEC. 1012. AUTOMATIC REGISTRATION OF ELIGI-
BLE INDIVIDUALS.
(a) REQUIRING STATES TO ESTABLISH AND
OPERATE AUTOMATIC REGISTRATION SYS-
TEM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The chief State election
official of each State shall establish and op-
erate a system of automatic registration for
the registration of eligible individuals to
vote for elections for Federal office in the
State, in accordance with the provisions of
this part.
(2) DEFINITION.—The term ‘‘automatic reg-
istration’’ means a system that registers an
individual to vote in elections for Federal of-
fice in a State, if eligible, by electronically
transferring the information necessary for
registration from government agencies to
election officials of the State so that, unless
the individual affirmatively declines to be
registered, the individual will be registered
to vote in such elections.
(b) REGISTRATION OF VOTERS BASED ON NEW
AGENCY RECORDS.—The chief State election
official shall—
(1) not later than 15 days after a contrib-
uting agency has transmitted information
with respect to an individual pursuant to
section 1013, ensure that the individual is
registered to vote in elections for Federal of-
fice in the State if the individual is eligible
to be registered to vote in such elections;
and
(2) not later than 120 days after a contrib-
uting agency has transmitted such informa-
tion with respect to the individual, send
written notice to the individual, in addition
to other means of notice established by this
part, of the individual’s voter registration
status.
(c) ONE-TIME REGISTRATION OF VOTERS
BASED ON EXISTING CONTRIBUTING AGENCY
RECORDS.—The chief State election official
shall—
(1) identify all individuals whose informa-
tion is transmitted by a contributing agency
pursuant to section 1014 and who are eligible
to be, but are not currently, registered to
vote in that State;
(2) promptly send each such individual
written notice, in addition to other means of
notice established by this part, which shall
not identify the contributing agency that
transmitted the information but shall in-
clude—
(A) an explanation that voter registration
is voluntary, but if the individual does not
decline registration, the individual will be
registered to vote;
(B) a statement offering the opportunity to
decline voter registration through means
consistent with the requirements of this
part;
(C) in the case of a State in which affili-
ation or enrollment with a political party is
required in order to participate in an elec-
tion to select the party’s candidate in an
election for Federal office, a statement offer-
ing the individual the opportunity to affil-
iate or enroll with a political party or to de-
cline to affiliate or enroll with a political
party, through means consistent with the re-
quirements of this part;
(D) the substantive qualifications of an
elector in the State as listed in the mail
voter registration application form for elec-
tions for Federal office prescribed pursuant
to section 9 of the National Voter Registra-
tion Act of 1993, the consequences of false
registration, and a statement that the indi-
vidual should decline to register if the indi-
vidual does not meet all those qualifications;
(E) instructions for correcting any erro-
neous information; and
(F) instructions for providing any addi-
tional information which is listed in the
mail voter registration application form for
elections for Federal office prescribed pursu-
ant to section 9 of the National Voter Reg-
istration Act of 1993;
(3) ensure that each such individual who is
eligible to register to vote in elections for
Federal office in the State is promptly reg-
istered to vote not later than 45 days after
the official sends the individual the written
notice under paragraph (2), unless, during
the 30-day period which begins on the date
the election official sends the individual
such written notice, the individual declines
registration in writing, through a commu-
nication made over the Internet, or by an of-
ficially-logged telephone communication;
and
(4) send written notice to each such indi-
vidual, in addition to other means of notice
established by this part, of the individual’s
voter registration status.
(d) TREATMENT OF INDIVIDUALS UNDER 18
YEARS OF AGE.—A State may not refuse to
treat an individual as an eligible individual
for purposes of this part on the grounds that
the individual is less than 18 years of age at
the time a contributing agency receives in-
formation with respect to the individual, so
long as the individual is at least 16 years of
age at such time.
(e) CONTRIBUTING AGENCY DEFINED.—In this
part, the term ‘‘contributing agency’’ means,
with respect to a State, an agency listed in
section 1013(e).
SEC. 1013. CONTRIBUTING AGENCY ASSISTANCE
IN REGISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with this
part, each contributing agency in a State
shall assist the State’s chief election official
in registering to vote all eligible individuals
served by that agency.
(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRIBUTING AGEN-
CIES.—
(1) INSTRUCTIONS ON AUTOMATIC REGISTRA-
TION.—With each application for service or
assistance, and with each related recertifi-
cation, renewal, or change of address, or, in
the case of an institution of higher edu-
cation, with each registration of a student
for enrollment in a course of study, each
contributing agency that (in the normal
course of its operations) requests individuals
to affirm United States citizenship (either
directly or as part of the overall application
for service or assistance) shall inform each
such individual who is a citizen of the United
States of the following:
(A) Unless that individual declines to reg-
ister to vote, or is found ineligible to vote,
the individual will be registered to vote or, if
applicable, the individual’s registration will
be updated.
(B) The substantive qualifications of an
elector in the State as listed in the mail
voter registration application form for elec-
tions for Federal office prescribed pursuant
to section 9 of the National Voter Registra-
tion Act of 1993, the consequences of false
registration, and the individual should de-
cline to register if the individual does not
meet all those qualifications.
(C) In the case of a State in which affili-
ation or enrollment with a political party is
required in order to participate in an elec-
tion to select the party’s candidate in an
election for Federal office, the requirement
that the individual must affiliate or enroll
with a political party in order to participate
in such an election.
(D) Voter registration is voluntary, and
neither registering nor declining to register
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2416 March 6, 2019
to vote will in any way affect the avail-
ability of services or benefits, nor be used for
other purposes.
(2) OPPORTUNITY TO DECLINE REGISTRATION
REQUIRED.—Each contributing agency shall
ensure that each application for service or
assistance, and each related recertification,
renewal, or change of address, or, in the case
of an institution of higher education, each
registration of a student for enrollment in a
course of study, cannot be completed until
the individual is given the opportunity to de-
cline to be registered to vote.
(3) INFORMATION TRANSMITTAL.—Upon the
expiration of the 30-day period which begins
on the date the contributing agency informs
the individual of the information described
in paragraph (1), each contributing agency
shall electronically transmit to the appro-
priate State election official, in a format
compatible with the statewide voter data-
base maintained under section 303 of the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21083), the following information, unless dur-
ing such 30-day period the individual de-
clined to be registered to vote:
(A) The individual’s given name(s) and sur-
name(s).
(B) The individual’s date of birth.
(C) The individual’s residential address.
(D) Information showing that the indi-
vidual is a citizen of the United States.
(E) The date on which information per-
taining to that individual was collected or
last updated.
(F) If available, the individual’s signature
in electronic form.
(G) Information regarding the individual’s
affiliation or enrollment with a political
party, if the individual provides such infor-
mation.
(H) Any additional information listed in
the mail voter registration application form
for elections for Federal office prescribed
pursuant to section 9 of the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993, including any valid
driver’s license number or the last 4 digits of
the individual’s social security number, if
the individual provided such information.
(c) ALTERNATE PROCEDURE FOR CERTAIN
CONTRIBUTING AGENCIES.—With each applica-
tion for service or assistance, and with each
related recertification, renewal, or change of
address, any contributing agency that in the
normal course of its operations does not re-
quest individuals applying for service or as-
sistance to affirm United States citizenship
(either directly or as part of the overall ap-
plication for service or assistance) shall—
(1) complete the requirements of section
7(a)(6) of the National Voter Registration
Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20506(a)(6));
(2) ensure that each applicant’s trans-
action with the agency cannot be completed
until the applicant has indicated whether
the applicant wishes to register to vote or
declines to register to vote in elections for
Federal office held in the State; and
(3) for each individual who wishes to reg-
ister to vote, transmit that individual’s in-
formation in accordance with subsection
(b)(3).
(d) REQUIRED AVAILABILITY OF AUTOMATIC
REGISTRATION OPPORTUNITY WITH EACH AP-
PLICATION FOR SERVICE OR ASSISTANCE.—Each
contributing agency shall offer each indi-
vidual, with each application for service or
assistance, and with each related recertifi-
cation, renewal, or change of address, or in
the case of an institution of higher edu-
cation, with each registration of a student
for enrollment in a course of study, the op-
portunity to register to vote as prescribed by
this section without regard to whether the
individual previously declined a registration
opportunity.
(e) CONTRIBUTING AGENCIES.—
(1) STATE AGENCIES.—In each State, each of
the following agencies shall be treated as a
contributing agency:
(A) Each agency in a State that is required
by Federal law to provide voter registration
services, including the State motor vehicle
authority and other voter registration agen-
cies under the National Voter Registration
Act of 1993.
(B) Each agency in a State that admin-
isters a program pursuant to title III of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 501 et seq.),
title XIX of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396 et seq.), or the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111–148).
(C) Each State agency primarily respon-
sible for regulating the private possession of
firearms.
(D) Each State agency primarily respon-
sible for maintaining identifying informa-
tion for students enrolled at public sec-
ondary schools, including, where applicable,
the State agency responsible for maintaining
the education data system described in sec-
tion 6201(e)(2) of the America COMPETES
Act (20 U.S.C. 9871(e)(2)).
(E) In the case of a State in which an indi-
vidual disenfranchised by a criminal convic-
tion may become eligible to vote upon com-
pletion of a criminal sentence or any part
thereof, or upon formal restoration of rights,
the State agency responsible for admin-
istering that sentence, or part thereof, or
that restoration of rights.
(F) Any other agency of the State which is
designated by the State as a contributing
agency.
(2) FEDERAL AGENCIES.—In each State, each
of the following agencies of the Federal gov-
ernment shall be treated as a contributing
agency with respect to individuals who are
residents of that State (except as provided in
subparagraph (C)):
(A) The Social Security Administration,
the Department of Veterans Affairs, the De-
fense Manpower Data Center of the Depart-
ment of Defense, the Employee and Training
Administration of the Department of Labor,
and the Center for Medicare & Medicaid
Services of the Department of Health and
Human Services.
(B) The Bureau of Citizenship and Immi-
gration Services, but only with respect to in-
dividuals who have completed the natu-
ralization process.
(C) In the case of an individual who is a
resident of a State in which an individual
disenfranchised by a criminal conviction
under Federal law may become eligible to
vote upon completion of a criminal sentence
or any part thereof, or upon formal restora-
tion of rights, the Federal agency respon-
sible for administering that sentence or part
thereof (without regard to whether the agen-
cy is located in the same State in which the
individual is a resident), but only with re-
spect to individuals who have completed the
criminal sentence or any part thereof.
(D) Any other agency of the Federal gov-
ernment which the State designates as a
contributing agency, but only if the State
and the head of the agency determine that
the agency collects information sufficient to
carry out the responsibilities of a contrib-
uting agency under this section.
(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR INSTITUTIONS OF HIGH-
ER EDUCATION.—
(A) SPECIAL RULE.—For purposes of this
part, each institution of higher education de-
scribed in subparagraph (B) shall be treated
as a contributing agency in the State in
which it is located, except that—
(i) the institution shall be treated as a con-
tributing agency only if, in its normal course
of operations, the institution requests each
student registering for enrollment in a
course of study, including enrollment in a
program of distance education, as defined in
section 103(7) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1003(7)), to affirm whether or
not the student is a United States citizen;
and
(ii) if the institution is treated as a con-
tributing agency in a State pursuant to
clause (i), the institution shall serve as a
contributing agency only with respect to
students, including students enrolled in a
program of distance education, as defined in
section 103(7) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1003(7)), who reside in the
State.
(B) INSTITUTIONS DESCRIBED.—An institu-
tion described in this subparagraph is an in-
stitution of higher education which has a
program participation agreement in effect
with the Secretary of Education under sec-
tion 487 of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1094) and which is located in a
State to which section 4(b) of the National
Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C.
20503(b)) does not apply.
(4) PUBLICATION.—Not later than 180 days
prior to the date of each election for Federal
office held in the State, the chief State elec-
tion official shall publish on the public
website of the official an updated list of all
contributing agencies in that State.
(5) PUBLIC EDUCATION.—The chief State
election official of each State, in collabora-
tion with each contributing agency, shall
take appropriate measures to educate the
public about voter registration under this
section.
SEC. 1014. ONE-TIME CONTRIBUTING AGENCY AS-
SISTANCE IN REGISTRATION OF ELI-
GIBLE VOTERS IN EXISTING
RECORDS.
(a) INITIAL TRANSMITTAL OF INFORMATION.—
For each individual already listed in a con-
tributing agency’s records as of the date of
enactment of this Act, and for whom the
agency has the information listed in section
1013(b)(3), the agency shall promptly trans-
mit that information to the appropriate
State election official in accordance with
section 1013(b)(3) not later than the effective
date described in section 1011(a).
(b) TRANSITION.—For each individual listed
in a contributing agency’s records as of the
effective date described in section 1011(a)
(but who was not listed in a contributing
agency’s records as of the date of enactment
of this Act), and for whom the agency has
the information listed in section 1013(b)(3),
the Agency shall promptly transmit that in-
formation to the appropriate State election
official in accordance with section 1013(b)(3)
not later than 6 months after the effective
date described in section 1011(a).
SEC. 1015. VOTER PROTECTION AND SECURITY IN
AUTOMATIC REGISTRATION.
(a) PROTECTIONS FOR ERRORS IN REGISTRA-
TION.—An individual shall not be prosecuted
under any Federal or State law, adversely af-
fected in any civil adjudication concerning
immigration status or naturalization, or
subject to an allegation in any legal pro-
ceeding that the individual is not a citizen of
the United States on any of the following
grounds:
(1) The individual notified an election of-
fice of the individual’s automatic registra-
tion to vote under this part.
(2) The individual is not eligible to vote in
elections for Federal office but was auto-
matically registered to vote under this part.
(3) The individual was automatically reg-
istered to vote under this part at an incor-
rect address.
(4) The individual declined the opportunity
to register to vote or did not make an affir-
mation of citizenship, including through
automatic registration, under this part.
(b) LIMITS ON USE OF AUTOMATIC REGISTRA-
TION.—The automatic registration of any in-
dividual or the fact that an individual de-
clined the opportunity to register to vote or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2417
March 6, 2019
did not make an affirmation of citizenship
(including through automatic registration)
under this part may not be used as evidence
against that individual in any State or Fed-
eral law enforcement proceeding, and an in-
dividual’s lack of knowledge or willfulness of
such registration may be demonstrated by
the individual’s testimony alone.
(c) PROTECTION OF ELECTION INTEGRITY.—
Nothing in subsections (a) or (b) may be con-
strued to prohibit or restrict any action
under color of law against an individual
who—
(1) knowingly and willfully makes a false
statement to effectuate or perpetuate auto-
matic voter registration by any individual;
or
(2) casts a ballot knowingly and willfully
in violation of State law or the laws of the
United States.
(d) CONTRIBUTING AGENCIES’ PROTECTION OF
INFORMATION.—Nothing in this part author-
izes a contributing agency to collect, retain,
transmit, or publicly disclose any of the fol-
lowing:
(1) An individual’s decision to decline to
register to vote or not to register to vote.
(2) An individual’s decision not to affirm
his or her citizenship.
(3) Any information that a contributing
agency transmits pursuant to section
1013(b)(3), except in pursuing the agency’s or-
dinary course of business.
(e) ELECTION OFFICIALS’ PROTECTION OF IN-
FORMATION.—
(1) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE PROHIBITED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), with respect to any individual for whom
any State election official receives informa-
tion from a contributing agency, the State
election officials shall not publicly disclose
any of the following:
(i) The identity of the contributing agency.
(ii) Any information not necessary to voter
registration.
(iii) Any voter information otherwise
shielded from disclosure under State law or
section 8(a) of the National Voter Registra-
tion Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20507(a)).
(iv) Any portion of the individual’s social
security number.
(v) Any portion of the individual’s motor
vehicle driver’s license number.
(vi) The individual’s signature.
(vii) The individual’s telephone number.
(viii) The individual’s email address.
(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR INDIVIDUALS REG-
ISTERED TO VOTE.—With respect to any indi-
vidual for whom any State election official
receives information from a contributing
agency and who, on the basis of such infor-
mation, is registered to vote in the State
under this part, the State election officials
shall not publicly disclose any of the fol-
lowing:
(i) The identity of the contributing agency.
(ii) Any information not necessary to voter
registration.
(iii) Any voter information otherwise
shielded from disclosure under State law or
section 8(a) of the National Voter Registra-
tion Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20507(a)).
(iv) Any portion of the individual’s social
security number.
(v) Any portion of the individual’s motor
vehicle driver’s license number.
(vi) The individual’s signature.
(2) VOTER RECORD CHANGES.—Each State
shall maintain for at least 2 years and shall
make available for public inspection (and,
where available, photocopying at a reason-
able cost), including in electronic form and
through electronic methods, all records of
changes to voter records, including remov-
als, the reasons for removals, and updates.
(3) DATABASE MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.—
The Director of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology shall, after pro-
viding the public with notice and the oppor-
tunity to comment—
(A) establish standards governing the com-
parison of data for voter registration list
maintenance purposes, identifying as part of
such standards the specific data elements,
the matching rules used, and how a State
may use the data to determine and deem
that an individual is ineligible under State
law to vote in an election, or to deem a
record to be a duplicate or outdated;
(B) ensure that the standards developed
pursuant to this paragraph are uniform and
nondiscriminatory and are applied in a uni-
form and nondiscriminatory manner; and
(C) not later than 45 days after the dead-
line for public notice and comment, publish
the standards developed pursuant to this
paragraph on the Director’s website and
make those standards available in written
form upon request.
(4) SECURITY POLICY.—The Director of the
National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology shall, after providing the public with
notice and the opportunity to comment, pub-
lish privacy and security standards for voter
registration information not later than 45
days after the deadline for public notice and
comment. The standards shall require the
chief State election official of each State to
adopt a policy that shall specify—
(A) each class of users who shall have au-
thorized access to the computerized state-
wide voter registration list, specifying for
each class the permission and levels of ac-
cess to be granted, and setting forth other
safeguards to protect the privacy, security,
and accuracy of the information on the list;
and
(B) security safeguards to protect personal
information transmitted through the infor-
mation transmittal processes of section 1013
or section 1014, the online system used pur-
suant to section 1017, any telephone inter-
face, the maintenance of the voter registra-
tion database, and any audit procedure to
track access to the system.
(5) STATE COMPLIANCE WITH NATIONAL
STANDARDS.—
(A) CERTIFICATION.—The chief executive of-
ficer of the State shall annually file with the
Election Assistance Commission a statement
certifying to the Director of the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology that
the State is in compliance with the stand-
ards referred to in paragraphs (3) and (4). A
State may meet the requirement of the pre-
vious sentence by filing with the Commis-
sion a statement which reads as follows:
‘‘lllll hereby certifies that it is in
compliance with the standards referred to in
paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 1015(e) of the
Automatic Voter Registration Act of 2019.’’
(with the blank to be filled in with the name
of the State involved).
(B) PUBLICATION OF POLICIES AND PROCE-
DURES.—The chief State election official of a
State shall publish on the official’s website
the policies and procedures established under
this section, and shall make those policies
and procedures available in written form
upon public request.
(C) FUNDING DEPENDENT ON CERTIFI-
CATION.—If a State does not timely file the
certification required under this paragraph,
it shall not receive any payment under this
part for the upcoming fiscal year.
(D) COMPLIANCE OF STATES THAT REQUIRE
CHANGES TO STATE LAW.—In the case of a
State that requires State legislation to carry
out an activity covered by any certification
submitted under this paragraph, for a period
of not more than 2 years the State shall be
permitted to make the certification notwith-
standing that the legislation has not been
enacted at the time the certification is sub-
mitted, and such State shall submit an addi-
tional certification once such legislation is
enacted.
(f) RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF INFORMATION.—
No person acting under color of law may dis-
criminate against any individual based on,
or use for any purpose other than voter reg-
istration, election administration, or en-
forcement relating to election crimes, any of
the following:
(1) Voter registration records.
(2) An individual’s declination to register
to vote or complete an affirmation of citi-
zenship under section 1013(b).
(3) An individual’s voter registration sta-
tus.
(g) PROHIBITION ON THE USE OF VOTER REG-
ISTRATION INFORMATION FOR COMMERCIAL
PURPOSES.—Information collected under this
part shall not be used for commercial pur-
poses. Nothing in this subsection may be
construed to prohibit the transmission, ex-
change, or dissemination of information for
political purposes, including the support of
campaigns for election for Federal, State, or
local public office or the activities of polit-
ical committees (including committees of
political parties) under the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971.
SEC. 1016. REGISTRATION PORTABILITY AND
CORRECTION.
(a) CORRECTING REGISTRATION INFORMATION
AT POLLING PLACE.—Notwithstanding section
302(a) of the Help America Vote Act of 2002
(52 U.S.C. 21082(a)), if an individual is reg-
istered to vote in elections for Federal office
held in a State, the appropriate election offi-
cial at the polling pace for any such election
(including a location used as a polling place
on a date other than the date of the election)
shall permit the individual to—
(1) update the individual’s address for pur-
poses of the records of the election official;
(2) correct any incorrect information relat-
ing to the individual, including the individ-
ual’s name and political party affiliation, in
the records of the election official; and
(3) cast a ballot in the election on the basis
of the updated address or corrected informa-
tion, and to have the ballot treated as a reg-
ular ballot and not as a provisional ballot
under section 302(a) of such Act.
(b) UPDATES TO COMPUTERIZED STATEWIDE
VOTER REGISTRATION LISTS.—If an election
official at the polling place receives an up-
dated address or corrected information from
an individual under subsection (a), the offi-
cial shall ensure that the address or informa-
tion is promptly entered into the computer-
ized Statewide voter registration list in ac-
cordance with section 303(a)(1)(A)(vi) of the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21083(a)(1)(A)(vi)).
SEC. 1017. PAYMENTS AND GRANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Election Assistance
Commission shall make grants to each eligi-
ble State to assist the State in implementing
the requirements of this part (or, in the case
of an exempt State, in implementing its ex-
isting automatic voter registration pro-
gram).
(b) ELIGIBILITY; APPLICATION.—A State is
eligible to receive a grant under this section
if the State submits to the Commission, at
such time and in such form as the Commis-
sion may require, an application con-
taining—
(1) a description of the activities the State
will carry out with the grant;
(2) an assurance that the State shall carry
out such activities without partisan bias and
without promoting any particular point of
view regarding any issue; and
(3) such other information and assurances
as the Commission may require.
(c) AMOUNT OF GRANT; PRIORITIES.—The
Commission shall determine the amount of a
grant made to an eligible State under this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2418 March 6, 2019
section. In determining the amounts of the
grants, the Commission shall give priority to
providing funds for those activities which
are most likely to accelerate compliance
with the requirements of this part (or, in the
case of an exempt State, which are most
likely to enhance the ability of the State to
automatically register individuals to vote
through its existing automatic voter reg-
istration program), including—
(1) investments supporting electronic in-
formation transfer, including electronic col-
lection and transfer of signatures, between
contributing agencies and the appropriate
State election officials;
(2) updates to online or electronic voter
registration systems already operating as of
the date of the enactment of this Act;
(3) introduction of online voter registra-
tion systems in jurisdictions in which those
systems did not previously exist; and
(4) public education on the availability of
new methods of registering to vote, updating
registration, and correcting registration.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized
to be appropriated to carry out this section—
(A) $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2019; and
(B) such sums as may be necessary for each
succeeding fiscal year.
(2) CONTINUING AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—
Any amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authority of this subsection shall remain
available without fiscal year limitation until
expended.
SEC. 1018. TREATMENT OF EXEMPT STATES.
(a) WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.—Except as
provided in subsection (b), this part does not
apply with respect to an exempt State.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—The following provisions
of this part apply with respect to an exempt
State:
(1) section 1016 (relating to registration
portability and correction).
(2) section 1017 (relating to payments and
grants).
(3) Section 1019(e) (relating to enforce-
ment).
(4) Section 1019(f) (relating to relation to
other laws).
SEC. 1019. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
(a) ACCESSIBILITY OF REGISTRATION SERV-
ICES.—Each contributing agency shall ensure
that the services it provides under this part
are made available to individuals with dis-
abilities to the same extent as services are
made available to all other individuals.
(b) TRANSMISSION THROUGH SECURE THIRD
PARTY PERMITTED.—Nothing in this part
shall be construed to prevent a contributing
agency from contracting with a third party
to assist the agency in meeting the informa-
tion transmittal requirements of this part,
so long as the data transmittal complies
with the applicable requirements of this
part, including the privacy and security pro-
visions of section 1015.
(c) NONPARTISAN, NONDISCRIMINATORY PRO-
VISION OF SERVICES.—The services made
available by contributing agencies under
this part and by the State under sections
1015 and 1016 shall be made in a manner con-
sistent with paragraphs (4), (5), and (6)(C) of
section 7(a) of the National Voter Registra-
tion Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20506(a)).
(d) NOTICES.—Each State may send notices
under this part via electronic mail if the in-
dividual has provided an electronic mail ad-
dress and consented to electronic mail com-
munications for election-related materials.
All notices sent pursuant to this part that
require a response must offer the individual
notified the opportunity to respond at no
cost to the individual.
(e) ENFORCEMENT.—Section 11 of the Na-
tional Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52
U.S.C. 20510), relating to civil enforcement
and the availability of private rights of ac-
tion, shall apply with respect to this part in
the same manner as such section applies to
such Act.
(f) RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.—Except as
provided, nothing in this part may be con-
strued to authorize or require conduct pro-
hibited under, or to supersede, restrict, or
limit the application of any of the following:
(1) The Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C.
10301 et seq.).
(2) The Uniformed and Overseas Citizens
Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20301 et seq.).
(3) The National Voter Registration Act of
1993 (52 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.).
(4) The Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52
U.S.C. 20901 et seq.).
SEC. 1020. DEFINITIONS.
In this part, the following definitions
apply:
(1) The term ‘‘chief State election official’’
means, with respect to a State, the indi-
vidual designated by the State under section
10 of the National Voter Registration Act of
1993 (52 U.S.C. 20509) to be responsible for co-
ordination of the State’s responsibilities
under such Act.
(2) The term ‘‘Commission’’ means the
Election Assistance Commission.
(3) The term ‘‘exempt State’’ means a
State which, under law which is in effect
continuously on and after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, operates an automatic
voter registration program under which an
individual is automatically registered to
vote in elections for Federal office in the
State if the individual provides the motor
vehicle authority of the State (or, in the
case of a State in which an individual is
automatically registered to vote at the time
the individual applies for benefits or services
with a Permanent Dividend Fund of the
State, provides the appropriate official of
such Fund) with such identifying informa-
tion as the State may require.
(4) The term ‘‘State’’ means each of the
several States and the District of Columbia.
SEC. 1021. EFFECTIVE DATE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), this part and the amendments
made by this part shall apply with respect to
a State beginning January 1, 2021.
(b) WAIVER.—Subject to the approval of the
Commission, if a State certifies to the Com-
mission that the State will not meet the
deadline referred to in subsection (a) because
of extraordinary circumstances and includes
in the certification the reasons for the fail-
ure to meet the deadline, subsection (a) shall
apply to the State as if the reference in such
subsection to ‘‘January 1, 2021’’ were a ref-
erence to ‘‘January 1, 2023’’.
PART 3—SAME DAY VOTER REGISTRATION
SEC. 1031. SAME DAY REGISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081 et
seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 304 and 305 as
sections 305 and 306; and
(2) by inserting after section 303 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 304. SAME DAY REGISTRATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) REGISTRATION.—Each State shall per-
mit any eligible individual on the day of a
Federal election and on any day when vot-
ing, including early voting, is permitted for
a Federal election—
‘‘(A) to register to vote in such election at
the polling place using a form that meets the
requirements under section 9(b) of the Na-
tional Voter Registration Act of 1993 (or, if
the individual is already registered to vote,
to revise any of the individual’s voter reg-
istration information); and
‘‘(B) to cast a vote in such election.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—The requirements under
paragraph (1) shall not apply to a State in
which, under a State law in effect continu-
ously on and after the date of the enactment
of this section, there is no voter registration
requirement for individuals in the State with
respect to elections for Federal office.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘eligible individual’
means, with respect to any election for Fed-
eral office, an individual who is otherwise
qualified to vote in that election.
‘‘(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Each State shall be
required to comply with the requirements of
subsection (a) for the regularly scheduled
general election for Federal office occurring
in November 2020 and for any subsequent
election for Federal office.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
ENFORCEMENT.—Section 401 of such Act (52
U.S.C. 21111) is amended by striking ‘‘sec-
tions 301, 302, and 303’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
title A of title III’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act is amended—
(1) by redesignating the items relating to
sections 304 and 305 as relating to sections
305 and 306; and
(2) by inserting after the item relating to
section 303 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 304. Same day registration.’’.
PART 4—CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL ON
BASIS OF INTERSTATE CROSS-CHECKS
SEC. 1041. CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF REG-
ISTRANTS FROM OFFICIAL LIST OF
ELIGIBLE VOTERS ON BASIS OF
INTERSTATE CROSS-CHECKS.
(a) MINIMUM INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR
REMOVAL UNDER CROSS-CHECK.—Section
8(c)(2) of the National Voter Registration
Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20507(c)(2)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as
subparagraph (D); and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(B) To the extent that the program car-
ried out by a State under subparagraph (A)
to systematically remove the names of ineli-
gible voters from the official lists of eligible
voters uses information obtained in an inter-
state cross-check, in addition to any other
conditions imposed under this Act on the au-
thority of the State to remove the name of
the voter from such a list, the State may not
remove the name of the voter from such a
list unless—
‘‘(i) the State obtained the voter’s full
name (including the voter’s middle name, if
any) and date of birth, and the last 4 digits
of the voter’s social security number, in the
interstate cross-check; or
‘‘(ii) the State obtained documentation
from the ERIC system that the voter is no
longer a resident of the State.
‘‘(C) In this paragraph—
‘‘(i) the term ‘interstate cross-check’
means the transmission of information from
an election official in one State to an elec-
tion official of another State; and
‘‘(ii) the term ‘ERIC system’ means the
system operated by the Electronic Registra-
tion Information Center to share voter reg-
istration information and voter identifica-
tion information among participating
States.’’.
(b) REQUIRING COMPLETION OF CROSS-
CHECKS NOT LATER THAN 6 MONTHS PRIOR TO
ELECTION.—Subparagraph (A) of section
8(c)(2) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20507(c)(2)) is
amended by striking ‘‘not later than 90
days’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘not later
than 90 days (or, in the case of a program in
which the State uses interstate cross-checks,
not later than 6 months)’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subpara-
graph (D) of section 8(c)(2) of such Act (52
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2419
March 6, 2019
U.S.C. 20507(c)(2)), as redesignated by sub-
section (a)(1), is amended by striking ‘‘Sub-
paragraph (A)’’ and inserting ‘‘This para-
graph’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this Act shall apply with respect to
elections held on or after the expiration of
the 6-month period which begins on the date
of the enactment of this Act.
PART 5—OTHER INITIATIVES TO
PROMOTE VOTER REGISTRATION
SEC. 1051. ANNUAL REPORTS ON VOTER REG-
ISTRATION STATISTICS.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 90
days after the end of each year, each State
shall submit to the Election Assistance Com-
mission and Congress a report containing the
following categories of information for the
year:
(1) The number of individuals who were
registered under part 2.
(2) The number of voter registration appli-
cation forms completed by individuals that
were transmitted by motor vehicle authori-
ties in the State (pursuant to section 5(d) of
the National Voter Registration Act of 1993)
and voter registration agencies in the State
(as designated under section 7 of such Act) to
the chief State election official of the State,
broken down by each such authority and
agency.
(3) The number of such individuals whose
voter registration application forms were ac-
cepted and who were registered to vote in
the State and the number of such individuals
whose forms were rejected and who were not
registered to vote in the State, broken down
by each such authority and agency.
(4) The number of change of address forms
and other forms of information indicating
that an individual’s identifying information
has been changed that were transmitted by
such motor vehicle authorities and voter
registration agencies to the chief State elec-
tion official of the State, broken down by
each such authority and agency and the type
of form transmitted.
(5) The number of individuals on the State-
wide computerized voter registration list (as
established and maintained under section 303
of the Help America Vote Act of 2002) whose
voter registration information was revised
by the chief State election official as a re-
sult of the forms transmitted to the official
by such motor vehicle authorities and voter
registration agencies (as described in para-
graph (3)), broken down by each such author-
ity and agency and the type of form trans-
mitted.
(6) The number of individuals who re-
quested the chief State election official to
revise voter registration information on such
list, and the number of individuals whose in-
formation was revised as a result of such a
request.
(b) BREAKDOWN OF INFORMATION BY RACE
AND ETHNICITY OF INDIVIDUALS.—In preparing
the report under this section, the State
shall, for each category of information de-
scribed in subsection (a), include a break-
down by race and ethnicity of the individuals
whose information is included in the cat-
egory, to the extent that information on the
race and ethnicity of such individuals is
available to the State.
(c) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.—In
preparing and submitting a report under this
section, the chief State election official shall
ensure that no information regarding the
identification of any individual is revealed.
(d) STATE DEFINED.—In this section, a
‘‘State’’ includes the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
United States Virgin Islands, Guam, Amer-
ican Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, but does not in-
clude any State in which, under a State law
in effect continuously on and after the date
of the enactment of this Act, there is no
voter registration requirement for individ-
uals in the State with respect to elections
for Federal office.
PART 6—AVAILABILITY OF HAVA
REQUIREMENTS PAYMENTS
SEC. 1061. AVAILABILITY OF REQUIREMENTS
PAYMENTS UNDER HAVA TO COVER
COSTS OF COMPLIANCE WITH NEW
REQUIREMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 251(b) of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21001(b))
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘as pro-
vided in paragraphs (2) and (3)’’ and inserting
‘‘as otherwise provided in this subsection’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(4) CERTAIN VOTER REGISTRATION ACTIVI-
TIES.—A State may use a requirements pay-
ment to carry out any of the requirements of
the Voter Registration Modernization Act of
2019, including the requirements of the Na-
tional Voter Registration Act of 1993 which
are imposed pursuant to the amendments
made to such Act by the Voter Registration
Modernization Act of 2019.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
254(a)(1) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 21004(a)(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘section 251(a)(2)’’ and
inserting ‘‘section 251(b)(2)’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to fiscal year 2018 and each succeeding fiscal
year.
PART 7—PROHIBITING INTERFERENCE
WITH VOTER REGISTRATION
SEC. 1071. PROHIBITING HINDERING, INTER-
FERING WITH, OR PREVENTING
VOTER REGISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 29 of title 18,
United States Code is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 612. Hindering, interfering with, or pre-
venting registering to vote
‘‘(a) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for
any person, whether acting under color of
law or otherwise, to corruptly hinder, inter-
fere with, or prevent another person from
registering to vote or to corruptly hinder,
interfere with, or prevent another person
from aiding another person in registering to
vote.
‘‘(b) ATTEMPT.—Any person who attempts
to commit any offense described in sub-
section (a) shall be subject to the same pen-
alties as those prescribed for the offense that
the person attempted to commit.
‘‘(c) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
subsection (a) shall be fined under this title,
imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 29 of title 18, United
States Code is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:
‘‘612. Hindering, interfering with, or pre-
venting registering to vote.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to elections held on or after the date of the
enactment of this Act, except that no person
may be found to have violated section 612 of
title 18, United States Code (as added by sub-
section (a)), on the basis of any act occurring
prior to the date of the enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 1072. ESTABLISHMENT OF BEST PRACTICES.
(a) BEST PRACTICES.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Election Assistance Commission
shall develop and publish recommendations
for best practices for States to use to deter
and prevent violations of section 612 of title
18, United States Code (as added by section
1071), and section 12 of the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20511) (re-
lating to the unlawful interference with reg-
istering to vote, or voting, or attempting to
register to vote or vote), including practices
to provide for the posting of relevant infor-
mation at polling places and voter registra-
tion agencies under such Act, the training of
poll workers and election officials, and rel-
evant educational materials. For purposes of
this subsection, the term ‘‘State’’ includes
the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the
United States Virgin Islands, and the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(b) INCLUSION IN VOTER INFORMATION RE-
QUIREMENTS.—Section 302(b)(2) of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21082(b)(2)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subpara-
graph (E);
(2) by striking the period at the end of sub-
paragraph (F) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(G) information relating to the prohibi-
tions of section 612 of title 18, United States
Code, and section 12 of the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20511) (re-
lating to the unlawful interference with reg-
istering to vote, or voting, or attempting to
register to vote or vote), including informa-
tion on how individuals may report allega-
tions of violations of such prohibitions.’’.
Subtitle B—Access to Voting for Individuals
With Disabilities
SEC. 1101. REQUIREMENTS FOR STATES TO PRO-
MOTE ACCESS TO VOTER REGISTRA-
TION AND VOTING FOR INDIVIDUALS
WITH DISABILITIES.
(a) REQUIREMENTS.—Subtitle A of title III
of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52
U.S.C. 21081 et seq.), as amended by section
1031(a), is amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 305 and 306 as
sections 306 and 307; and
(2) by inserting after section 304 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 305. ACCESS TO VOTER REGISTRATION AND
VOTING FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DIS-
ABILITIES.
‘‘(a) TREATMENT OF APPLICATIONS AND BAL-
LOTS.—Each State shall—
‘‘(1) permit individuals with disabilities to
use absentee registration procedures and to
vote by absentee ballot in elections for Fed-
eral office;
‘‘(2) accept and process, with respect to
any election for Federal office, any other-
wise valid voter registration application and
absentee ballot application from an indi-
vidual with a disability if the application is
received by the appropriate State election
official within the deadline for the election
which is applicable under Federal law;
‘‘(3) in addition to any other method of
registering to vote or applying for an absen-
tee ballot in the State, establish proce-
dures—
‘‘(A) for individuals with disabilities to re-
quest by mail and electronically voter reg-
istration applications and absentee ballot
applications with respect to elections for
Federal office in accordance with subsection
(c);
‘‘(B) for States to send by mail and elec-
tronically (in accordance with the preferred
method of transmission designated by the in-
dividual under subparagraph (C)) voter reg-
istration applications and absentee ballot
applications requested under subparagraph
(A) in accordance with subsection (c); and
‘‘(C) by which such an individual can des-
ignate whether the individual prefers that
such voter registration application or absen-
tee ballot application be transmitted by mail
or electronically;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2420 March 6, 2019
‘‘(4) in addition to any other method of
transmitting blank absentee ballots in the
State, establish procedures for transmitting
by mail and electronically blank absentee
ballots to individuals with disabilities with
respect to elections for Federal office in ac-
cordance with subsection (d);
‘‘(5) transmit a validly requested absentee
ballot to an individual with a disability—
‘‘(A) except as provided in subsection (e),
in the case in which the request is received
at least 45 days before an election for Fed-
eral office, not later than 45 days before the
election; and
‘‘(B) in the case in which the request is re-
ceived less than 45 days before an election
for Federal office—
‘‘(i) in accordance with State law; and
‘‘(ii) if practicable and as determined ap-
propriate by the State, in a manner that ex-
pedites the transmission of such absentee
ballot; and
‘‘(6) if the State declares or otherwise
holds a runoff election for Federal office, es-
tablish a written plan that provides absentee
ballots are made available to individuals
with disabilities in a manner that gives them
sufficient time to vote in the runoff election.
‘‘(b) DESIGNATION OF SINGLE STATE OFFICE
TO PROVIDE INFORMATION ON REGISTRATION
AND ABSENTEE BALLOT PROCEDURES FOR ALL
DISABLED VOTERS IN STATE.—Each State
shall designate a single office which shall be
responsible for providing information regard-
ing voter registration procedures and absen-
tee ballot procedures to be used by individ-
uals with disabilities with respect to elec-
tions for Federal office to all individuals
with disabilities who wish to register to vote
or vote in any jurisdiction in the State.
‘‘(c) DESIGNATION OF MEANS OF ELECTRONIC
COMMUNICATION FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DIS-
ABILITIES TO REQUEST AND FOR STATES TO
SEND VOTER REGISTRATION APPLICATIONS AND
ABSENTEE BALLOT APPLICATIONS, AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES RELATED TO VOTING INFOR-
MATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each State shall, in ad-
dition to the designation of a single State of-
fice under subsection (b), designate not less
than 1 means of electronic communication—
‘‘(A) for use by individuals with disabilities
who wish to register to vote or vote in any
jurisdiction in the State to request voter
registration applications and absentee ballot
applications under subsection (a)(3);
‘‘(B) for use by States to send voter reg-
istration applications and absentee ballot
applications requested under such sub-
section; and
‘‘(C) for the purpose of providing related
voting, balloting, and election information
to individuals with disabilities.
‘‘(2) CLARIFICATION REGARDING PROVISION OF
MULTIPLE MEANS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICA-
TION.—A State may, in addition to the means
of electronic communication so designated,
provide multiple means of electronic com-
munication to individuals with disabilities,
including a means of electronic communica-
tion for the appropriate jurisdiction of the
State.
‘‘(3) INCLUSION OF DESIGNATED MEANS OF
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION WITH INFORMA-
TIONAL AND INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS THAT
ACCOMPANY BALLOTING MATERIALS.—Each
State shall include a means of electronic
communication so designated with all infor-
mational and instructional materials that
accompany balloting materials sent by the
State to individuals with disabilities.
‘‘(4) TRANSMISSION IF NO PREFERENCE INDI-
CATED.—In the case where an individual with
a disability does not designate a preference
under subsection (a)(3)(C), the State shall
transmit the voter registration application
or absentee ballot application by any deliv-
ery method allowable in accordance with ap-
plicable State law, or if there is no applica-
ble State law, by mail.
‘‘(d) TRANSMISSION OF BLANK ABSENTEE
BALLOTS BY MAIL AND ELECTRONICALLY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each State shall estab-
lish procedures—
‘‘(A) to securely transmit blank absentee
ballots by mail and electronically (in accord-
ance with the preferred method of trans-
mission designated by the individual with a
disability under subparagraph (B)) to indi-
viduals with disabilities for an election for
Federal office; and
‘‘(B) by which the individual with a dis-
ability can designate whether the individual
prefers that such blank absentee ballot be
transmitted by mail or electronically.
‘‘(2) TRANSMISSION IF NO PREFERENCE INDI-
CATED.—In the case where an individual with
a disability does not designate a preference
under paragraph (1)(B), the State shall trans-
mit the ballot by any delivery method allow-
able in accordance with applicable State law,
or if there is no applicable State law, by
mail.
‘‘(3) APPLICATION OF METHODS TO TRACK DE-
LIVERY TO AND RETURN OF BALLOT BY INDI-
VIDUAL REQUESTING BALLOT.—Under the pro-
cedures established under paragraph (1), the
State shall apply such methods as the State
considers appropriate, such as assigning a
unique identifier to the ballot, to ensure
that if an individual with a disability re-
quests the State to transmit a blank absen-
tee ballot to the individual in accordance
with this subsection, the voted absentee bal-
lot which is returned by the individual is the
same blank absentee ballot which the State
transmitted to the individual.
‘‘(e) HARDSHIP EXEMPTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the chief State elec-
tion official determines that the State is un-
able to meet the requirement under sub-
section (a)(5)(A) with respect to an election
for Federal office due to an undue hardship
described in paragraph (2)(B), the chief State
election official shall request that the Attor-
ney General grant a waiver to the State of
the application of such subsection. Such re-
quest shall include—
‘‘(A) a recognition that the purpose of such
subsection is to individuals with disabilities
enough time to vote in an election for Fed-
eral office;
‘‘(B) an explanation of the hardship that
indicates why the State is unable to trans-
mit such individuals an absentee ballot in
accordance with such subsection;
‘‘(C) the number of days prior to the elec-
tion for Federal office that the State re-
quires absentee ballots be transmitted to
such individuals; and
‘‘(D) a comprehensive plan to ensure that
such individuals are able to receive absentee
ballots which they have requested and sub-
mit marked absentee ballots to the appro-
priate State election official in time to have
that ballot counted in the election for Fed-
eral office, which includes—
‘‘(i) the steps the State will undertake to
ensure that such individuals have time to re-
ceive, mark, and submit their ballots in time
to have those ballots counted in the election;
‘‘(ii) why the plan provides such individ-
uals sufficient time to vote as a substitute
for the requirements under such subsection;
and
‘‘(iii) the underlying factual information
which explains how the plan provides such
sufficient time to vote as a substitute for
such requirements.
‘‘(2) APPROVAL OF WAIVER REQUEST.—The
Attorney General shall approve a waiver re-
quest under paragraph (1) if the Attorney
General determines each of the following re-
quirements are met:
‘‘(A) The comprehensive plan under sub-
paragraph (D) of such paragraph provides in-
dividuals with disabilities sufficient time to
receive absentee ballots they have requested
and submit marked absentee ballots to the
appropriate State election official in time to
have that ballot counted in the election for
Federal office.
‘‘(B) One or more of the following issues
creates an undue hardship for the State:
‘‘(i) The State’s primary election date pro-
hibits the State from complying with sub-
section (a)(5)(A).
‘‘(ii) The State has suffered a delay in gen-
erating ballots due to a legal contest.
‘‘(iii) The State Constitution prohibits the
State from complying with such subsection.
‘‘(3) TIMING OF WAIVER.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided
under subparagraph (B), a State that re-
quests a waiver under paragraph (1) shall
submit to the Attorney General the written
waiver request not later than 90 days before
the election for Federal office with respect
to which the request is submitted. The At-
torney General shall approve or deny the
waiver request not later than 65 days before
such election.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—If a State requests a
waiver under paragraph (1) as the result of
an undue hardship described in paragraph
(2)(B)(ii), the State shall submit to the At-
torney General the written waiver request as
soon as practicable. The Attorney General
shall approve or deny the waiver request not
later than 5 business days after the date on
which the request is received.
‘‘(4) APPLICATION OF WAIVER.—A waiver ap-
proved under paragraph (2) shall only apply
with respect to the election for Federal of-
fice for which the request was submitted.
For each subsequent election for Federal of-
fice, the Attorney General shall only approve
a waiver if the State has submitted a request
under paragraph (1) with respect to such
election.
‘‘(f) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed to allow the
marking or casting of ballots over the inter-
net.
‘‘(g) INDIVIDUAL WITH A DISABILITY DE-
FINED.—In this section, an ‘individual with a
disability’ means an individual with an im-
pairment that substantially limits any
major life activities and who is otherwise
qualified to vote in elections for Federal of-
fice.
‘‘(h) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall
apply with respect to elections for Federal
office held on or after January 1, 2020.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
ISSUANCE OF VOLUNTARY GUIDANCE BY ELEC-
TION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION.—Section 311(b)
of such Act (52 U.S.C. 21101(b)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (2);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (3) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(4) in the case of the recommendations
with respect to section 305, January 1, 2020.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act, as amended by section
1031(c), is amended—
(1) by redesignating the items relating to
sections 305 and 306 as relating to sections
306 and 307; and
(2) by inserting after the item relating to
section 304 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 305. Access to voter registration and
voting for individuals with dis-
abilities.’’.
SEC. 1102. EXPANSION AND REAUTHORIZATION
OF GRANT PROGRAM TO ASSURE
VOTING ACCESS FOR INDIVIDUALS
WITH DISABILITIES.
(a) PURPOSES OF PAYMENTS.—Section 261(b)
of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52
U.S.C. 21021(b)) is amended by striking para-
graphs (1) and (2) and inserting the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2421
March 6, 2019
‘‘(1) making absentee voting and voting at
home accessible to individuals with the full
range of disabilities (including impairments
involving vision, hearing, mobility, or dex-
terity) through the implementation of acces-
sible absentee voting systems that work in
conjunction with assistive technologies for
which individuals have access at their
homes, independent living centers, or other
facilities;
‘‘(2) making polling places, including the
path of travel, entrances, exits, and voting
areas of each polling facility, accessible to
individuals with disabilities, including the
blind and visually impaired, in a manner
that provides the same opportunity for ac-
cess and participation (including privacy and
independence) as for other voters; and
‘‘(3) providing solutions to problems of ac-
cess to voting and elections for individuals
with disabilities that are universally de-
signed and provide the same opportunities
for individuals with and without disabil-
ities.’’.
(b) REAUTHORIZATION.—Section 264(a) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 21024(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(4) For fiscal year 2020 and each suc-
ceeding fiscal year, such sums as may be nec-
essary to carry out this part.’’.
(c) PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—
Section 264 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 21024) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘Any
amounts’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as provided
in subsection (b), any amounts’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(c) RETURN AND TRANSFER OF CERTAIN
FUNDS.—
‘‘(1) DEADLINE FOR OBLIGATION AND EXPEND-
ITURE.—In the case of any amounts appro-
priated pursuant to the authority of sub-
section (a) for a payment to a State or unit
of local government for fiscal year 2020 or
any succeeding fiscal year, any portion of
such amounts which have not been obligated
or expended by the State or unit of local gov-
ernment prior to the expiration of the 4-year
period which begins on the date the State or
unit of local government first received the
amounts shall be transferred to the Commis-
sion.
‘‘(2) REALLOCATION OF TRANSFERRED
AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
use the amounts transferred under paragraph
(1) to make payments on a pro rata basis to
each covered payment recipient described in
subparagraph (B), which may obligate and
expend such payment for the purposes de-
scribed in section 261(b) during the 1-year pe-
riod which begins on the date of receipt.
‘‘(B) COVERED PAYMENT RECIPIENTS DE-
SCRIBED.—In subparagraph (A), a ‘covered
payment recipient’ is a State or unit of local
government with respect to which—
‘‘(i) amounts were appropriated pursuant
to the authority of subsection (a); and
‘‘(ii) no amounts were transferred to the
Commission under paragraph (1).’’.
SEC. 1103. PILOT PROGRAMS FOR ENABLING IN-
DIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES TO
REGISTER TO VOTE PRIVATELY AND
INDEPENDENTLY AT RESIDENCES.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PILOT PROGRAMS.—
The Election Assistance Commission (here-
after referred to as the ‘‘Commission’’) shall,
subject to the availability of appropriations
to carry out this section, make grants to eli-
gible States to conduct pilot programs under
which individuals with disabilities may use
electronic means (including the Internet and
telephones utilizing assistive devices) to reg-
ister to vote and to request and receive ab-
sentee ballots in a manner which permits
such individuals to do so privately and inde-
pendently at their own residences.
(b) REPORTS—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A State receiving a grant
for a year under this section shall submit a
report to the Commission on the pilot pro-
grams the State carried out with the grant
with respect to elections for public office
held in the State during the year.
(2) DEADLINE.A State shall submit a report
under paragraph (1) not later than 90 days
after the last election for public office held
in the State during the year.
(c) ELIGIBILITY.—A State is eligible to re-
ceive a grant under this section if the State
submits to the Commission, at such time and
in such form as the Commission may require,
an application containing such information
and assurances as the Commission may re-
quire.
(d) TIMING.—The Commission shall make
the first grants under this section for pilot
programs which will be in effect with respect
to elections for Federal office held in 2020,
or, at the option of a State, with respect to
other elections for public office held in the
State in 2020.
(e) STATE DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘State’’ includes the District of Colum-
bia, the Common-wealth of Puerto Rico,
Guam, American Samoa, the United States
Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands.
Subtitle C—Prohibiting Voter Caging
SEC. 1201. VOTER CAGING AND OTHER QUES-
TIONABLE CHALLENGES PROHIB-
ITED.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 29 of title 18,
United States Code, as amended by section
1071(a), is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘§ 613. Voter caging and other questionable
challenges
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
‘‘(1) the term ‘voter caging document’
means—
‘‘(A) a nonforwardable document that is re-
turned to the sender or a third party as un-
delivered or undeliverable despite an at-
tempt to deliver such document to the ad-
dress of a registered voter or applicant; or
‘‘(B) any document with instructions to an
addressee that the document be returned to
the sender or a third party but is not so re-
turned, despite an attempt to deliver such
document to the address of a registered voter
or applicant, unless at least two Federal
election cycles have passed since the date of
the attempted delivery;
‘‘(2) the term ‘voter caging list’ means a
list of individuals compiled from voter cag-
ing documents; and
‘‘(3) the term ‘unverified match list’ means
a list produced by matching the information
of registered voters or applicants for voter
registration to a list of individuals who are
ineligible to vote in the registrar’s jurisdic-
tion, by virtue of death, conviction, change
of address, or otherwise; unless one of the
pieces of information matched includes a sig-
nature, photograph, or unique identifying
number ensuring that the information from
each source refers to the same individual.
‘‘(b) PROHIBITION AGAINST VOTER CAGING.—
No State or local election official shall pre-
vent an individual from registering or voting
in any election for Federal office, or permit
in connection with any election for Federal
office a formal challenge under State law to
an individual’s registration status or eligi-
bility to vote, if the basis for such decision
is evidence consisting of—
‘‘(1) a voter caging document or voter cag-
ing list;
‘‘(2) an unverified match list;
‘‘(3) an error or omission on any record or
paper relating to any application, registra-
tion, or other act requisite to voting, if such
error or omission is not material to an indi-
vidual’s eligibility to vote under section 2004
of the Revised Statutes, as amended (52
U.S.C. 10101(a)(2)(B)); or
‘‘(4) any other evidence so designated for
purposes of this section by the Election As-
sistance Commission,
except that the election official may use
such evidence if it is corroborated by inde-
pendent evidence of the individual’s ineligi-
bility to register or vote.
‘‘(c) REQUIREMENTS FOR CHALLENGES BY
PERSONS OTHER THAN ELECTION OFFICIALS.—
‘‘(1) REQUIREMENTS FOR CHALLENGES.—No
person, other than a State or local election
official, shall submit a formal challenge to
an individual’s eligibility to register to vote
in an election for Federal office or to vote in
an election for Federal office unless that
challenge is supported by personal knowl-
edge regarding the grounds for ineligibility
which is—
‘‘(A) documented in writing; and
‘‘(B) subject to an oath or attestation
under penalty of perjury that the challenger
has a good faith factual basis to believe that
the individual who is the subject of the chal-
lenge is ineligible to register to vote or vote
in that election, except a challenge which is
based on the race, ethnicity, or national ori-
gin of the individual who is the subject of
the challenge may not be considered to have
a good faith factual basis for purposes of this
paragraph.
‘‘(2) PROHIBITION ON CHALLENGES ON OR
NEAR DATE OF ELECTION.—No person, other
than a State or local election official, shall
be permitted—
‘‘(A) to challenge an individual’s eligibility
to vote in an election for Federal office on
Election Day, or
‘‘(B) to challenge an individual’s eligibility
to register to vote in an election for Federal
office or to vote in an election for Federal of-
fice less than 10 days before the election un-
less the individual registered to vote less
than 20 days before the election.
‘‘(d) PENALTIES FOR KNOWING MIS-
CONDUCT.—Whoever knowingly challenges
the eligibility of one or more individuals to
register or vote or knowingly causes the eli-
gibility of such individuals to be challenged
in violation of this section with the intent
that one or more eligible voters be disquali-
fied, shall be fined under this title or impris-
oned not more than 1 year, or both, for each
such violation. Each violation shall be a sep-
arate offense.
‘‘(e) NO EFFECT ON RELATED LAWS.—Noth-
ing in this section is intended to override the
protections of the National Voter Registra-
tion Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.) or to
affect the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52
U.S.C. 10301 et seq.).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 29 of title 18, United
States Code, as amended by section 1071(b),
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘613. Voter caging and other questionable
challenges.’’.
SEC. 1202. DEVELOPMENT AND ADOPTION OF
BEST PRACTICES FOR PREVENTING
VOTER CAGING.
(a) BEST PRACTICES.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Election Assistance Commission
shall develop and publish for the use of
States recommendations for best practices
to deter and prevent violations of section 613
of title 18, United States Code, as added by
section 1201(a), including practices to pro-
vide for the posting of relevant information
at polling places and voter registration agen-
cies, the training of poll workers and elec-
tion officials, and relevant educational
measures. For purposes of this subsection,
the term ‘‘State’’ includes the District of Co-
lumbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
Guam, American Samoa, the United States
Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands.
(b) INCLUSION IN VOTING INFORMATION RE-
QUIREMENTS.—Section 302(b)(2) of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21082(b)(2)), as amended by section 1072(b), is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subpara-
graph (F);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2422 March 6, 2019
(2) by striking the period at the end of sub-
paragraph (G) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(H) information relating to the prohibi-
tion against voter caging and other question-
able challenges (as set forth in section 613 of
title 18, United States Code), including infor-
mation on how individuals may report alle-
gations of violations of such prohibition.’’.
Subtitle D—Prohibiting Deceptive Practices
and Preventing Voter Intimidation
SEC. 1301. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Decep-
tive Practices and Voter Intimidation Pre-
vention Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 1302. PROHIBITION ON DECEPTIVE PRAC-
TICES IN FEDERAL ELECTIONS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—Subsection (b) of section
2004 of the Revised Statutes (52 U.S.C.
10101(b)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘No person’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—No person’’; and
(2) by inserting at the end the following
new paragraphs:
‘‘(2) FALSE STATEMENTS REGARDING FED-
ERAL ELECTIONS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—No person, whether act-
ing under color of law or otherwise, shall,
within 60 days before an election described in
paragraph (5), by any means, including by
means of written, electronic, or telephonic
communications, communicate or cause to
be communicated information described in
subparagraph (B), or produce information de-
scribed in subparagraph (B) with the intent
that such information be communicated, if
such person—
‘‘(i) knows such information to be materi-
ally false; and
‘‘(ii) has the intent to impede or prevent
another person from exercising the right to
vote in an election described in paragraph
(5).
‘‘(B) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—Information
is described in this subparagraph if such in-
formation is regarding—
‘‘(i) the time, place, or manner of holding
any election described in paragraph (5); or
‘‘(ii) the qualifications for or restrictions
on voter eligibility for any such election, in-
cluding—
‘‘(I) any criminal penalties associated with
voting in any such election; or
‘‘(II) information regarding a voter’s reg-
istration status or eligibility.
‘‘(3) FALSE STATEMENTS REGARDING PUBLIC
ENDORSEMENTS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—No person, whether act-
ing under color of law or otherwise, shall,
within 60 days before an election described in
paragraph (5), by any means, including by
means of written, electronic, or telephonic
communications, communicate, or cause to
be communicated, a materially false state-
ment about an endorsement, if such person—
‘‘(i) knows such statement to be false; and
‘‘(ii) has the intent to impede or prevent
another person from exercising the right to
vote in an election described in paragraph
(5).
‘‘(B) DEFINITION OF ‘MATERIALLY FALSE’.—
For purposes of subparagraph (A), a state-
ment about an endorsement is ‘materially
false’ if, with respect to an upcoming elec-
tion described in paragraph (5)—
‘‘(i) the statement states that a specifi-
cally named person, political party, or orga-
nization has endorsed the election of a spe-
cific candidate for a Federal office described
in such paragraph; and
‘‘(ii) such person, political party, or orga-
nization has not endorsed the election of
such candidate.
‘‘(4) HINDERING, INTERFERING WITH, OR PRE-
VENTING VOTING OR REGISTERING TO VOTE.—No
person, whether acting under color of law or
otherwise, shall intentionally hinder, inter-
fere with, or prevent another person from
voting, registering to vote, or aiding another
person to vote or register to vote in an elec-
tion described in paragraph (5).
‘‘(5) ELECTION DESCRIBED.—An election de-
scribed in this paragraph is any general, pri-
mary, run-off, or special election held solely
or in part for the purpose of nominating or
electing a candidate for the office of Presi-
dent, Vice President, presidential elector,
Member of the Senate, Member of the House
of Representatives, or Delegate or Commis-
sioner from a Territory or possession.’’.
(b) PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (c) of section
2004 of the Revised Statutes (52 U.S.C.
10101(c)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘Whenever any person’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘(1) Whenever any person’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) Any person aggrieved by a violation of
subsection (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) may insti-
tute a civil action for preventive relief, in-
cluding an application in a United States
district court for a permanent or temporary
injunction, restraining order, or other order.
In any such action, the court, in its discre-
tion, may allow the prevailing party a rea-
sonable attorney’s fee as part of the costs.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Subsection (e) of section 2004 of the Re-
vised Statutes (52 U.S.C. 10101(e)) is amended
by striking ‘‘subsection (c)’’ and inserting
‘‘subsection (c)(1)’’.
(B) Subsection (g) of section 2004 of the Re-
vised Statutes (52 U.S.C. 10101(g)) is amended
by striking ‘‘subsection (c)’’ and inserting
‘‘subsection (c)(1)’’.
(c) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—
(1) DECEPTIVE ACTS.—Section 594 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘Whoever’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) INTIMIDATION.—Whoever’’;
(B) in subsection (a), as inserted by sub-
paragraph (A), by striking ‘‘at any election’’
and inserting ‘‘at any general, primary, run-
off, or special election’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subsections:
‘‘(b) DECEPTIVE ACTS.—
‘‘(1) FALSE STATEMENTS REGARDING FED-
ERAL ELECTIONS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for
any person, whether acting under color of
law or otherwise, within 60 days before an
election described in subsection (e), by any
means, including by means of written, elec-
tronic, or telephonic communications, to
communicate or cause to be communicated
information described in subparagraph (B),
or produce information described in subpara-
graph (B) with the intent that such informa-
tion be communicated, if such person—
‘‘(i) knows such information to be materi-
ally false; and
‘‘(ii) has the intent to mislead voters, or
the intent to impede or prevent another per-
son from exercising the right to vote in an
election described in subsection (e).
‘‘(B) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—Information
is described in this subparagraph if such in-
formation is regarding—
‘‘(i) the time or place of holding any elec-
tion described in subsection (e); or
‘‘(ii) the qualifications for or restrictions
on voter eligibility for any such election, in-
cluding—
‘‘(I) any criminal penalties associated with
voting in any such election; or
‘‘(II) information regarding a voter’s reg-
istration status or eligibility.
‘‘(2) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
paragraph (1) shall be fined not more than
$100,000, imprisoned for not more than 5
years, or both.
‘‘(c) HINDERING, INTERFERING WITH, OR PRE-
VENTING VOTING OR REGISTERING TO VOTE.—
‘‘(1) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for
any person, whether acting under color of
law or otherwise, to intentionally hinder,
interfere with, or prevent another person
from voting, registering to vote, or aiding
another person to vote or register to vote in
an election described in subsection (e).
‘‘(2) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
paragraph (1) shall be fined not more than
$100,000, imprisoned for not more than 5
years, or both.
‘‘(d) ATTEMPT.—Any person who attempts
to commit any offense described in sub-
section (a), (b)(1), or (c)(1) shall be subject to
the same penalties as those prescribed for
the offense that the person attempted to
commit.
‘‘(e) ELECTION DESCRIBED.—An election de-
scribed in this subsection is any general, pri-
mary, run-off, or special election held solely
or in part for the purpose of nominating or
electing a candidate for the office of Presi-
dent, Vice President, presidential elector,
Member of the Senate, Member of the House
of Representatives, or Delegate or Commis-
sioner from a Territory or possession.’’.
(2) MODIFICATION OF PENALTY FOR VOTER IN-
TIMIDATION.—Section 594(a) of title 18, United
States Code, as amended by paragraph (1), is
amended by striking ‘‘fined under this title
or imprisoned not more than one year’’ and
inserting ‘‘fined not more than $100,000, im-
prisoned for not more than 5 years’’.
(3) SENTENCING GUIDELINES.—
(A) REVIEW AND AMENDMENT.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the United States Sentencing Com-
mission, pursuant to its authority under sec-
tion 994 of title 28, United States Code, and
in accordance with this section, shall review
and, if appropriate, amend the Federal sen-
tencing guidelines and policy statements ap-
plicable to persons convicted of any offense
under section 594 of title 18, United States
Code, as amended by this section.
(B) AUTHORIZATION.—The United States
Sentencing Commission may amend the Fed-
eral Sentencing Guidelines in accordance
with the procedures set forth in section 21(a)
of the Sentencing Act of 1987 (28 U.S.C. 994
note) as though the authority under that
section had not expired.
(4) PAYMENTS FOR REFRAINING FROM VOT-
ING.—Subsection (c) of section 11 of the Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10307) is
amended by striking ‘‘either for registration
to vote or for voting’’ and inserting ‘‘for reg-
istration to vote, for voting, or for not vot-
ing’’.
SEC. 1303. CORRECTIVE ACTION.
(a) CORRECTIVE ACTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Attorney General
receives a credible report that materially
false information has been or is being com-
municated in violation of paragraphs (2) and
(3) of section 2004(b) of the Revised Statutes
(52 U.S.C. 10101(b)), as added by section
1302(a), and if the Attorney General deter-
mines that State and local election officials
have not taken adequate steps to promptly
communicate accurate information to cor-
rect the materially false information, the
Attorney General shall, pursuant to the
written procedures and standards under sub-
section (b), communicate to the public, by
any means, including by means of written,
electronic, or telephonic communications,
accurate information designed to correct the
materially false information.
(2) COMMUNICATION OF CORRECTIVE INFORMA-
TION.—Any information communicated by
the Attorney General under paragraph (1)—
(A) shall—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2423
March 6, 2019
(i) be accurate and objective;
(ii) consist of only the information nec-
essary to correct the materially false infor-
mation that has been or is being commu-
nicated; and
(iii) to the extent practicable, be by a
means that the Attorney General determines
will reach the persons to whom the materi-
ally false information has been or is being
communicated; and
(B) shall not be designed to favor or dis-
favor any particular candidate, organization,
or political party.
(b) WRITTEN PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
FOR TAKING CORRECTIVE ACTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Attorney General shall publish written pro-
cedures and standards for determining when
and how corrective action will be taken
under this section.
(2) INCLUSION OF APPROPRIATE DEADLINES.—
The procedures and standards under para-
graph (1) shall include appropriate deadlines,
based in part on the number of days remain-
ing before the upcoming election.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In developing the pro-
cedures and standards under paragraph (1),
the Attorney General shall consult with the
Election Assistance Commission, State and
local election officials, civil rights organiza-
tions, voting rights groups, voter protection
groups, and other interested community or-
ganizations.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Attorney General such sums as may be
necessary to carry out this subtitle.
SEC. 1304. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after each general election for Federal office,
the Attorney General shall submit to Con-
gress a report compiling all allegations re-
ceived by the Attorney General of deceptive
practices described in paragraphs (2), (3), and
(4) of section 2004(b) of the Revised Statutes
(52 U.S.C. 10101(b)), as added by section
1302(a), relating to the general election for
Federal office and any primary, run-off, or a
special election for Federal office held in the
2 years preceding the general election.
(b) CONTENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each report submitted
under subsection (a) shall include—
(A) a description of each allegation of a de-
ceptive practice described in subsection (a),
including the geographic location, racial and
ethnic composition, and language minority-
group membership of the persons toward
whom the alleged deceptive practice was di-
rected;
(B) the status of the investigation of each
allegation described in subparagraph (A);
(C) a description of each corrective action
taken by the Attorney General under section
4(a) in response to an allegation described in
subparagraph (A);
(D) a description of each referral of an alle-
gation described in subparagraph (A) to
other Federal, State, or local agencies;
(E) to the extent information is available,
a description of any civil action instituted
under section 2004(c)(2) of the Revised Stat-
utes (52 U.S.C. 10101(c)(2)), as added by sec-
tion 1302(b), in connection with an allegation
described in subparagraph (A); and
(F) a description of any criminal prosecu-
tion instituted under section 594 of title 18,
United States Code, as amended by section
3(c), in connection with the receipt of an al-
legation described in subparagraph (A) by
the Attorney General.
(2) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
shall not include in a report submitted under
subsection (a) any information protected
from disclosure by rule 6(e) of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure or any Federal
criminal statute.
(B) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN OTHER INFORMA-
TION.—The Attorney General may determine
that the following information shall not be
included in a report submitted under sub-
section (a):
(i) Any information that is privileged.
(ii) Any information concerning an ongo-
ing investigation.
(iii) Any information concerning a crimi-
nal or civil proceeding conducted under seal.
(iv) Any other nonpublic information that
the Attorney General determines the disclo-
sure of which could reasonably be expected
to infringe on the rights of any individual or
adversely affect the integrity of a pending or
future criminal investigation.
(c) REPORT MADE PUBLIC.—On the date
that the Attorney General submits the re-
port under subsection (a), the Attorney Gen-
eral shall also make the report publicly
available through the Internet and other ap-
propriate means.
Subtitle E—Democracy Restoration
SEC. 1401. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Democ-
racy Restoration Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 1402. RIGHTS OF CITIZENS.
The right of an individual who is a citizen
of the United States to vote in any election
for Federal office shall not be denied or
abridged because that individual has been
convicted of a criminal offense unless such
individual is serving a felony sentence in a
correctional institution or facility at the
time of the election.
SEC. 1403. ENFORCEMENT.
(a) ATTORNEY GENERAL.—The Attorney
General may, in a civil action, obtain such
declaratory or injunctive relief as is nec-
essary to remedy a violation of this subtitle.
(b) PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A person who is aggrieved
by a violation of this subtitle may provide
written notice of the violation to the chief
election official of the State involved.
(2) RELIEF.—Except as provided in para-
graph (3), if the violation is not corrected
within 90 days after receipt of a notice under
paragraph (1), or within 20 days after receipt
of the notice if the violation occurred within
120 days before the date of an election for
Federal office, the aggrieved person may, in
a civil action, obtain declaratory or injunc-
tive relief with respect to the violation.
(3) EXCEPTION.—If the violation occurred
within 30 days before the date of an election
for Federal office, the aggrieved person need
not provide notice to the chief election offi-
cial of the State under paragraph (1) before
bringing a civil action to obtain declaratory
or injunctive relief with respect to the viola-
tion.
SEC. 1404. NOTIFICATION OF RESTORATION OF
VOTING RIGHTS.
(a) STATE NOTIFICATION.—
(1) NOTIFICATION.—On the date determined
under paragraph (2), each State shall notify
in writing any individual who has been con-
victed of a criminal offense under the law of
that State that such individual has the right
to vote in an election for Federal office pur-
suant to the Democracy Restoration Act of
2019 and may register to vote in any such
election.
(2) DATE OF NOTIFICATION.—
(A) FELONY CONVICTION.—In the case of
such an individual who has been convicted of
a felony, the notification required under
paragraph (1) shall be given on the date on
which the individual—
(i) is sentenced to serve only a term of pro-
bation; or
(ii) is released from the custody of that
State (other than to the custody of another
State or the Federal Government to serve a
term of imprisonment for a felony convic-
tion).
(B) MISDEMEANOR CONVICTION.—In the case
of such an individual who has been convicted
of a misdemeanor, the notification required
under paragraph (1) shall be given on the
date on which such individual is sentenced
by a State court.
(b) FEDERAL NOTIFICATION.—
(1) NOTIFICATION.—Any individual who has
been convicted of a criminal offense under
Federal law shall be notified in accordance
with paragraph (2) that such individual has
the right to vote in an election for Federal
office pursuant to the Democracy Restora-
tion Act of 2019 and may register to vote in
any such election.
(2) DATE OF NOTIFICATION.—
(A) FELONY CONVICTION.—In the case of
such an individual who has been convicted of
a felony, the notification required under
paragraph (1) shall be given—
(i) in the case of an individual who is sen-
tenced to serve only a term of probation, by
the Assistant Director for the Office of Pro-
bation and Pretrial Services of the Adminis-
trative Office of the United States Courts on
the date on which the individual is sen-
tenced; or
(ii) in the case of any individual com-
mitted to the custody of the Bureau of Pris-
ons, by the Director of the Bureau of Pris-
ons, during the period beginning on the date
that is 6 months before such individual is re-
leased and ending on the date such indi-
vidual is released from the custody of the
Bureau of Prisons.
(B) MISDEMEANOR CONVICTION.—In the case
of such an individual who has been convicted
of a misdemeanor, the notification required
under paragraph (1) shall be given on the
date on which such individual is sentenced
by a court established by an Act of Congress.
SEC. 1405. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this subtitle:
(1) CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION OR FACIL-
ITY.—The term ‘‘correctional institution or
facility’’ means any prison, penitentiary,
jail, or other institution or facility for the
confinement of individuals convicted of
criminal offenses, whether publicly or pri-
vately operated, except that such term does
not include any residential community
treatment center (or similar public or pri-
vate facility).
(2) ELECTION.—The term ‘‘election’’
means—
(A) a general, special, primary, or runoff
election;
(B) a convention or caucus of a political
party held to nominate a candidate;
(C) a primary election held for the selec-
tion of delegates to a national nominating
convention of a political party; or
(D) a primary election held for the expres-
sion of a preference for the nomination of
persons for election to the office of Presi-
dent.
(3) FEDERAL OFFICE.—The term ‘‘Federal
office’’ means the office of President or Vice
President of the United States, or of Senator
or Representative in, or Delegate or Resident
Commissioner to, the Congress of the United
States.
(4) PROBATION.—The term ‘‘probation’’
means probation, imposed by a Federal,
State, or local court, with or without a con-
dition on the individual involved con-
cerning—
(A) the individual’s freedom of movement;
(B) the payment of damages by the indi-
vidual;
(C) periodic reporting by the individual to
an officer of the court; or
(D) supervision of the individual by an offi-
cer of the court.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2424 March 6, 2019
SEC. 1406. RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
(a) STATE LAWS RELATING TO VOTING
RIGHTS.—Nothing in this subtitle be con-
strued to prohibit the States from enacting
any State law which affords the right to vote
in any election for Federal office on terms
less restrictive than those established by
this subtitle.
(b) CERTAIN FEDERAL ACTS.—The rights
and remedies established by this subtitle are
in addition to all other rights and remedies
provided by law, and neither rights and rem-
edies established by this Act shall supersede,
restrict, or limit the application of the Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.)
or the National Voter Registration Act of
1993 (52 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.).
SEC. 1407. FEDERAL PRISON FUNDS.
No State, unit of local government, or
other person may receive or use, to con-
struct or otherwise improve a prison, jail, or
other place of incarceration, any Federal
funds unless that person has in effect a pro-
gram under which each individual incarcer-
ated in that person’s jurisdiction who is a
citizen of the United States is notified, upon
release from such incarceration, of that indi-
vidual’s rights under section 1402.
SEC. 1408. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This subtitle shall apply to citizens of the
United States voting in any election for Fed-
eral office held after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
Subtitle F—Promoting Accuracy, Integrity,
and Security Through Voter-Verified Per-
manent Paper Ballot
SEC. 1501. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Voter
Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 1502. PAPER BALLOT AND MANUAL COUNT-
ING REQUIREMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 301(a)(2) of the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21081(a)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(2) PAPER BALLOT REQUIREMENT.—
‘‘(A) VOTER-VERIFIED PAPER BALLOTS.—
‘‘(i) PAPER BALLOT REQUIREMENT.—(I) The
voting system shall require the use of an in-
dividual, durable, voter-verified paper ballot
of the voter’s vote that shall be marked and
made available for inspection and
verification by the voter before the voter’s
vote is cast and counted, and which shall be
counted by hand or read by an optical char-
acter recognition device or other counting
device. For purposes of this subclause, the
term ‘individual, durable, voter-verified
paper ballot’ means a paper ballot marked by
the voter by hand or a paper ballot marked
through the use of a nontabulating ballot
marking device or system, so long as the
voter shall have the option to mark his or
her ballot by hand.
‘‘(II) The voting system shall provide the
voter with an opportunity to correct any
error on the paper ballot before the perma-
nent voter-verified paper ballot is preserved
in accordance with clause (ii).
‘‘(III) The voting system shall not preserve
the voter-verified paper ballots in any man-
ner that makes it possible, at any time after
the ballot has been cast, to associate a voter
with the record of the voter’s vote without
the voter’s consent.
‘‘(ii) PRESERVATION AS OFFICIAL RECORD.—
The individual, durable, voter-verified paper
ballot used in accordance with clause (i)
shall constitute the official ballot and shall
be preserved and used as the official ballot
for purposes of any recount or audit con-
ducted with respect to any election for Fed-
eral office in which the voting system is
used.
‘‘(iii) MANUAL COUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR
RECOUNTS AND AUDITS.—(I) Each paper ballot
used pursuant to clause (i) shall be suitable
for a manual audit, and shall be counted by
hand in any recount or audit conducted with
respect to any election for Federal office.
‘‘(II) In the event of any inconsistencies or
irregularities between any electronic vote
tallies and the vote tallies determined by
counting by hand the individual, durable,
voter-verified paper ballots used pursuant to
clause (i), and subject to subparagraph (B),
the individual, durable, voter-verified paper
ballots shall be the true and correct record
of the votes cast.
‘‘(iv) APPLICATION TO ALL BALLOTS.—The
requirements of this subparagraph shall
apply to all ballots cast in elections for Fed-
eral office, including ballots cast by absent
uniformed services voters and overseas vot-
ers under the Uniformed and Overseas Citi-
zens Absentee Voting Act and other absentee
voters.
‘‘(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR TREATMENT OF DIS-
PUTES WHEN PAPER BALLOTS HAVE BEEN SHOWN
TO BE COMPROMISED.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the event that—
‘‘(I) there is any inconsistency between
any electronic vote tallies and the vote tal-
lies determined by counting by hand the in-
dividual, durable, voter-verified paper bal-
lots used pursuant to subparagraph (A)(i)
with respect to any election for Federal of-
fice; and
‘‘(II) it is demonstrated by clear and con-
vincing evidence (as determined in accord-
ance with the applicable standards in the ju-
risdiction involved) in any recount, audit, or
contest of the result of the election that the
paper ballots have been compromised (by
damage or mischief or otherwise) and that a
sufficient number of the ballots have been so
compromised that the result of the election
could be changed,
the determination of the appropriate remedy
with respect to the election shall be made in
accordance with applicable State law, except
that the electronic tally shall not be used as
the exclusive basis for determining the offi-
cial certified result.
‘‘(ii) RULE FOR CONSIDERATION OF BALLOTS
ASSOCIATED WITH EACH VOTING MACHINE.—For
purposes of clause (i), only the paper ballots
deemed compromised, if any, shall be consid-
ered in the calculation of whether or not the
result of the election could be changed due
to the compromised paper ballots.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT CLARIFYING
APPLICABILITY OF ALTERNATIVE LANGUAGE
ACCESSIBILITY.—Section 301(a)(4) of such Act
(52 U.S.C. 21081(a)(4)) is amended by inserting
‘‘(including the paper ballots required to be
used under paragraph (2))’’ after ‘‘voting sys-
tem’’.
(c) OTHER CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Sec-
tion 301(a)(1) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
21081(a)(1)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking
‘‘counted’’ and inserting ‘‘counted, in accord-
ance with paragraphs (2) and (3)’’;
(2) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking
‘‘counted’’ and inserting ‘‘counted, in accord-
ance with paragraphs (2) and (3)’’;
(3) in subparagraph (A)(iii), by striking
‘‘counted’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘counted, in accordance with paragraphs
(2) and (3)’’; and
(4) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking
‘‘counted’’ and inserting ‘‘counted, in accord-
ance with paragraphs (2) and (3)’’.
SEC. 1503. ACCESSIBILITY AND BALLOT
VERIFICATION FOR INDIVIDUALS
WITH DISABILITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 301(a)(3)(B) of the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21081(a)(3)(B)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(B)(i) ensure that individuals with dis-
abilities and others are given an equivalent
opportunity to vote, including with privacy
and independence, in a manner that produces
a voter-verified paper ballot as for other vot-
ers;
‘‘(ii) satisfy the requirement of subpara-
graph (A) through the use of at least one vot-
ing system equipped for individuals with dis-
abilities, including nonvisual and enhanced
visual accessibility for the blind and visually
impaired, and nonmanual and enhanced man-
ual accessibility for the mobility and dex-
terity impaired, at each polling place; and
‘‘(iii) meet the requirements of subpara-
graph (A) and paragraph (2)(A) by using a
system that—
‘‘(I) allows the voter to privately and inde-
pendently verify the permanent paper ballot
through the presentation, in accessible form,
of the printed or marked vote selections
from the same printed or marked informa-
tion that would be used for any vote count-
ing or auditing; and
‘‘(II) allows the voter to privately and
independently verify and cast the permanent
paper ballot without requiring the voter to
manually handle the paper ballot;’’.
(b) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENT OF STUDY, TEST-
ING, AND DEVELOPMENT OF ACCESSIBLE PAPER
BALLOT VERIFICATION MECHANISMS.—
(1) STUDY AND REPORTING.—Subtitle C of
title II of such Act (52 U.S.C. 21081 et seq.) is
amended—
(A) by redesignating section 247 as section
248; and
(B) by inserting after section 246 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 247. STUDY AND REPORT ON ACCESSIBLE
PAPER BALLOT VERIFICATION
MECHANISMS.
‘‘(a) STUDY AND REPORT.—The Director of
the National Science Foundation shall make
grants to not fewer than 3 eligible entities to
study, test, and develop accessible paper bal-
lot voting, verification, and casting mecha-
nisms and devices and best practices to en-
hance the accessibility of paper ballot voting
and verification mechanisms for individuals
with disabilities, for voters whose primary
language is not English, and for voters with
difficulties in literacy, including best prac-
tices for the mechanisms themselves and the
processes through which the mechanisms are
used.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBILITY.—An entity is eligible to
receive a grant under this part if it submits
to the Director (at such time and in such
form as the Director may require) an appli-
cation containing—
‘‘(1) certifications that the entity shall
specifically investigate enhanced methods or
devices, including non-electronic devices,
that will assist such individuals and voters
in marking voter-verified paper ballots and
presenting or transmitting the information
printed or marked on such ballots back to
such individuals and voters, and casting such
ballots;
‘‘(2) a certification that the entity shall
complete the activities carried out with the
grant not later than December 31, 2020; and
‘‘(3) such other information and certifi-
cations as the Director may require.
‘‘(c) AVAILABILITY OF TECHNOLOGY.—Any
technology developed with the grants made
under this section shall be treated as non-
proprietary and shall be made available to
the public, including to manufacturers of
voting systems.
‘‘(d) COORDINATION WITH GRANTS FOR TECH-
NOLOGY IMPROVEMENTS.—The Director shall
carry out this section so that the activities
carried out with the grants made under sub-
section (a) are coordinated with the research
conducted under the grant program carried
out by the Commission under section 271, to
the extent that the Director and Commission
determine necessary to provide for the ad-
vancement of accessible voting technology.
‘‘(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2425
March 6, 2019
carry out subsection (a) $5,000,000, to remain
available until expended.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act is amended—
(A) by redesignating the item relating to
section 247 as relating to section 248; and
(B) by inserting after the item relating to
section 246 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 247. Study and report on accessible
paper ballot verification mech-
anisms.’’.
(c) CLARIFICATION OF ACCESSIBILITY STAND-
ARDS UNDER VOLUNTARY VOTING SYSTEM
GUIDANCE.—In adopting any voluntary guid-
ance under subtitle B of title III of the Help
America Vote Act with respect to the acces-
sibility of the paper ballot verification re-
quirements for individuals with disabilities,
the Election Assistance Commission shall in-
clude and apply the same accessibility stand-
ards applicable under the voluntary guidance
adopted for accessible voting systems under
such subtitle.
(d) PERMITTING USE OF FUNDS FOR PROTEC-
TION AND ADVOCACY SYSTEMS TO SUPPORT AC-
TIONS TO ENFORCE ELECTION-RELATED DIS-
ABILITY ACCESS.—Section 292(a) of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21062(a))
is amended by striking ‘‘; except that’’ and
all that follows and inserting a period.
SEC. 1504. DURABILITY AND READABILITY RE-
QUIREMENTS FOR BALLOTS.
Section 301(a) of the Help America Vote
Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(7) DURABILITY AND READABILITY REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR BALLOTS.—
‘‘(A) DURABILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR PAPER
BALLOTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—All voter-verified paper
ballots required to be used under this Act
shall be marked or printed on durable paper.
‘‘(ii) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this Act,
paper is ‘durable’ if it is capable of with-
standing multiple counts and recounts by
hand without compromising the fundamental
integrity of the ballots, and capable of re-
taining the information marked or printed
on them for the full duration of a retention
and preservation period of 22 months.
‘‘(B) READABILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR PAPER
BALLOTS MARKED BY BALLOT MARKING DE-
VICE.—All voter-verified paper ballots com-
pleted by the voter through the use of a bal-
lot marking device shall be clearly readable
by the voter without assistance (other than
eyeglasses or other personal vision enhanc-
ing devices) and by an optical character rec-
ognition device or other device equipped for
individuals with disabilities.’’.
SEC. 1505. EFFECTIVE DATE FOR NEW REQUIRE-
MENTS.
Section 301(d) of the Help America Vote
Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081(d)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), each State and jurisdiction
shall be required to comply with the require-
ments of this section on and after January 1,
2006.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraphs (B) and (C), the requirements
of this section which are first imposed on a
State and jurisdiction pursuant to the
amendments made by the Voter Confidence
and Increased Accessibility Act of 2019 shall
apply with respect to voting systems used
for any election for Federal office held in
2020 or any succeeding year.
‘‘(B) DELAY FOR JURISDICTIONS USING CER-
TAIN PAPER RECORD PRINTERS OR CERTAIN SYS-
TEMS USING OR PRODUCING VOTER-VERIFIABLE
PAPER RECORDS IN 2018.—
‘‘(i) DELAY.—In the case of a jurisdiction
described in clause (ii), subparagraph (A)
shall apply to a voting system in the juris-
diction as if the reference in such subpara-
graph to ‘2020’ were a reference to ‘2022’, but
only with respect to the following require-
ments of this section:
‘‘(I) Paragraph (2)(A)(i)(I) of subsection (a)
(relating to the use of voter-verified paper
ballots).
‘‘(II) Paragraph (3)(B)(ii)(I) and (II) of sub-
section (a) (relating to access to verification
from and casting of the durable paper bal-
lot).
‘‘(III) Paragraph (7) of subsection (a) (relat-
ing to durability and readability require-
ments for ballots).
‘‘(ii) JURISDICTIONS DESCRIBED.—A jurisdic-
tion described in this clause is a jurisdic-
tion—
‘‘(I) which used voter verifiable paper
record printers attached to direct recording
electronic voting machines, or which used
other voting systems that used or produced
paper records of the vote verifiable by voters
but that are not in compliance with para-
graphs (2)(A)(i)(I), (3)(B)(iii)(I) and (II), and
(7) of subsection (a) (as amended or added by
the Voter Confidence and Increased Accessi-
bility Act of 2019), for the administration of
the regularly scheduled general election for
Federal office held in November 2018; and
‘‘(II) which will continue to use such print-
ers or systems for the administration of elec-
tions for Federal office held in years before
2022.
‘‘(iii) MANDATORY AVAILABILITY OF PAPER
BALLOTS AT POLLING PLACES USING GRAND-
FATHERED PRINTERS AND SYSTEMS.—
‘‘(I) REQUIRING BALLOTS TO BE OFFERED AND
PROVIDED.—The appropriate election official
at each polling place that uses a printer or
system described in clause (ii)(I) for the ad-
ministration of elections for Federal office
shall offer each individual who is eligible to
cast a vote in the election at the polling
place the opportunity to cast the vote using
a blank pre-printed paper ballot which the
individual may mark by hand and which is
not produced by the direct recording elec-
tronic voting machine or other such system.
The official shall provide the individual with
the ballot and the supplies necessary to
mark the ballot, and shall ensure (to the
greatest extent practicable) that the waiting
period for the individual to cast a vote is the
lesser of 30 minutes or the average waiting
period for an individual who does not agree
to cast the vote using such a paper ballot
under this clause.
‘‘(II) TREATMENT OF BALLOT.—Any paper
ballot which is cast by an individual under
this clause shall be counted and otherwise
treated as a regular ballot for all purposes
(including by incorporating it into the final
unofficial vote count (as defined by the
State) for the precinct) and not as a provi-
sional ballot, unless the individual casting
the ballot would have otherwise been re-
quired to cast a provisional ballot.
‘‘(III) POSTING OF NOTICE.—The appropriate
election official shall ensure there is promi-
nently displayed at each polling place a no-
tice that describes the obligation of the offi-
cial to offer individuals the opportunity to
cast votes using a pre-printed blank paper
ballot.
‘‘(IV) TRAINING OF ELECTION OFFICIALS.—
The chief State election official shall ensure
that election officials at polling places in the
State are aware of the requirements of this
clause, including the requirement to display
a notice under subclause (III), and are aware
that it is a violation of the requirements of
this title for an election official to fail to
offer an individual the opportunity to cast a
vote using a blank pre-printed paper ballot.
‘‘(V) PERIOD OF APPLICABILITY.—The re-
quirements of this clause apply only during
the period in which the delay is in effect
under clause (i).
‘‘(C) SPECIAL RULE FOR JURISDICTIONS USING
CERTAIN NONTABULATING BALLOT MARKING DE-
VICES.—In the case of a jurisdiction which
uses a nontabulating ballot marking device
which automatically deposits the ballot into
a privacy sleeve, subparagraph (A) shall
apply to a voting system in the jurisdiction
as if the reference in such subparagraph to
‘any election for Federal office held in 2020
or any succeeding year’ were a reference to
‘elections for Federal office occurring held in
2022 or each succeeding year’, but only with
respect to paragraph (3)(B)(iii)(II) of sub-
section (a) (relating to nonmanual casting of
the durable paper ballot).’’.
Subtitle G—Provisional Ballots
SEC. 1601. REQUIREMENTS FOR COUNTING PRO-
VISIONAL BALLOTS; ESTABLISH-
MENT OF UNIFORM AND NON-
DISCRIMINATORY STANDARDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 302 of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21082) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (f); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsections:
‘‘(d) STATEWIDE COUNTING OF PROVISIONAL
BALLOTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of sub-
section (a)(4), notwithstanding the precinct
or polling place at which a provisional ballot
is cast within the State, the appropriate
election official shall count each vote on
such ballot for each election in which the in-
dividual who cast such ballot is eligible to
vote.
‘‘(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This subsection
shall apply with respect to elections held on
or after January 1, 2020.
‘‘(e) UNIFORM AND NONDISCRIMINATORY
STANDARDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Consistent with the re-
quirements of this section, each State shall
establish uniform and nondiscriminatory
standards for the issuance, handling, and
counting of provisional ballots.
‘‘(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This subsection
shall apply with respect to elections held on
or after January 1, 2020.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
302(f) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 21082(f)), as redes-
ignated by subsection (a), is amended by
striking ‘‘Each State’’ and inserting ‘‘Except
as provided in subsections (d)(2) and (e)(2),
each State’’.
Subtitle H—Early Voting
SEC. 1611. EARLY VOTING.
(a) REQUIREMENTS.—Subtitle A of title III
of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52
U.S.C. 21081 et seq.), as amended by section
1031(a) and section 1101(a), is amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 306 and 307 as
sections 307 and 308; and
(2) by inserting after section 305 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 306. EARLY VOTING.
‘‘(a) REQUIRING VOTING PRIOR TO DATE OF
ELECTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each State shall allow
individuals to vote in an election for Federal
office during an early voting period which
occurs prior to the date of the election, in
the same manner as voting is allowed on
such date.
‘‘(2) LENGTH OF PERIOD.—The early voting
period required under this subsection with
respect to an election shall consist of a pe-
riod of consecutive days (including week-
ends) which begins on the 15th day before the
date of the election (or, at the option of the
State, on a day prior to the 15th day before
the date of the election) and ends on the date
of the election.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2426 March 6, 2019
‘‘(b) MINIMUM EARLY VOTING REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Each polling place which allows vot-
ing during an early voting period under sub-
section (a) shall—
‘‘(1) allow such voting for no less than 4
hours on each day, except that the polling
place may allow such voting for fewer than 4
hours on Sundays; and
‘‘(2) have uniform hours each day for which
such voting occurs.
‘‘(c) LOCATION OF POLLING PLACES NEAR
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION.—To the greatest
extent practicable, a State shall ensure that
each polling place which allows voting dur-
ing an early voting period under subsection
(a) is located within walking distance of a
stop on a public transportation route.
‘‘(d) STANDARDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
issue standards for the administration of
voting prior to the day scheduled for a Fed-
eral election. Such standards shall include
the nondiscriminatory geographic placement
of polling places at which such voting oc-
curs.
‘‘(2) DEVIATION.—The standards described
in paragraph (1) shall permit States, upon
providing adequate public notice, to deviate
from any requirement in the case of unfore-
seen circumstances such as a natural dis-
aster, terrorist attack, or a change in voter
turnout.
‘‘(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall
apply with respect to elections held on or
after January 1, 2020.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
ISSUANCE OF VOLUNTARY GUIDANCE BY ELEC-
TION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION.—Section 311(b)
of such Act (52 U.S.C. 21101(b)), as amended
by section 1101(b), is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (3);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (4) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(5) in the case of the recommendations
with respect to section 306, June 30, 2020.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act, as amended by section
1031(c) and section 1101(d), is amended—
(1) by redesignating the items relating to
sections 306 and 307 as relating to sections
307 and 308; and
(2) by inserting after the item relating to
section 305 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 306. Early voting.’’.
Subtitle I—Voting by Mail
SEC. 1621. VOTING BY MAIL.
(a) REQUIREMENTS.—Subtitle A of title III
of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52
U.S.C. 21081 et seq.), as amended by section
1031(a), section 1101(a), and section 1611(a), is
amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 307 and 308 as
sections 308 and 309; and
(2) by inserting after section 306 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 307. PROMOTING ABILITY OF VOTERS TO
VOTE BY MAIL.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—If an individual in a
State is eligible to cast a vote in an election
for Federal office, the State may not impose
any additional conditions or requirements on
the eligibility of the individual to cast the
vote in such election by absentee ballot by
mail, except as required under subsection (b)
and except to the extent that the State im-
poses a deadline for requesting the ballot and
related voting materials from the appro-
priate State or local election official and for
returning the ballot to the appropriate State
or local election official.
‘‘(b) REQUIRING SIGNATURE VERIFICATION.—
‘‘(1) REQUIREMENT.—A State may not ac-
cept and process an absentee ballot sub-
mitted by any individual with respect to an
election for Federal office unless the State
verifies the identification of the individual
by comparing the individual’s signature on
the absentee ballot with the individual’s sig-
nature on the official list of registered voters
in the State, in accordance with such proce-
dures as the State may adopt (subject to the
requirements of paragraph (2)).
‘‘(2) DUE PROCESS REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) NOTICE AND OPPORTUNITY TO CURE DIS-
CREPANCY.—If an individual submits an ab-
sentee ballot and the appropriate State or
local election official determines that a dis-
crepancy exists between the signature on
such ballot and the signature of such indi-
vidual on the official list of registered voters
in the State, such election official, prior to
making a final determination as to the va-
lidity of such ballot, shall make a good faith
effort to immediately notify such individual
by mail, telephone, and (if available) elec-
tronic mail that—
‘‘(i) a discrepancy exists between the signa-
ture on such ballot and the signature of such
individual on the official list of registered
voters in the State;
‘‘(ii) such individual may provide the offi-
cial with information to cure such discrep-
ancy, either in person, by telephone, or by
electronic methods; and
‘‘(iii) if such discrepancy is not cured prior
to the expiration of the 7-day period which
begins on the date of the election, such bal-
lot will not be counted.
‘‘(B) OTHER REQUIREMENTS.—An election of-
ficial may not make a determination that a
discrepancy exists between the signature on
an absentee ballot and the signature of the
individual who submits the ballot on the of-
ficial list of registered voters in the State
unless—
‘‘(i) at least 2 election officials make the
determination; and
‘‘(ii) each official who makes the deter-
mination has received training in procedures
used to verify signatures.
‘‘(c) DEADLINE FOR PROVIDING BALLOTING
MATERIALS.—If an individual requests to
vote by absentee ballot in an election for
Federal office, the appropriate State or local
election official shall ensure that the ballot
and relating voting materials are received by
the individual—
‘‘(1) not later than 2 weeks before the date
of the election; or
‘‘(2) in the case of a State which imposes a
deadline for requesting an absentee ballot
and related voting materials which is less
than 2 weeks before the date of the election,
as expeditiously as possible before the date
of the election.
‘‘(d) ACCESSIBILITY FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH
DISABILITIES.—Consistent with section 305,
the State shall ensure that all absentee bal-
lots and related voting materials in elections
for Federal office are accessible to individ-
uals with disabilities in a manner that pro-
vides the same opportunity for access and
participation (including with privacy and
independence) as for other voters.
‘‘(e) PAYMENT OF POSTAGE ON BALLOTS.—
Consistent with regulations of the United
States Postal Service, the State or the unit
of local government responsible for the ad-
ministration of an election for Federal office
shall prepay the postage on any ballot in the
election which is cast by mail.
‘‘(f) UNIFORM DEADLINE FOR ACCEPTANCE OF
MAILED BALLOTS.—If a ballot submitted by
an individual by mail with respect to an
election for Federal office in a State is post-
marked on or before the date of the election,
the State may not refuse to accept or proc-
ess the ballot on the grounds that the indi-
vidual did not meet a deadline for returning
the ballot to the appropriate State or local
election official.
‘‘(g) NO EFFECT ON BALLOTS SUBMITTED BY
ABSENT MILITARY AND OVERSEAS VOTERS.—
Nothing in this section may be construed to
affect the treatment of any ballot submitted
by an individual who is entitled to vote by
absentee ballot under the Uniformed and
Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (52
U.S.C. 20301 et seq.).
‘‘(h) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall
apply with respect to elections held on or
after January 1, 2020.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
ISSUANCE OF VOLUNTARY GUIDANCE BY ELEC-
TION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION.—Section 311(b)
of such Act (52 U.S.C. 21101(b)), as amended
by section 1101(b) and section 1611(b), is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (4);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (5) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(6) in the case of the recommendations
with respect to section 307, June 30, 2020.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act, as amended by section
1031(c), section 1101(d), and section 1611(c), is
amended—
(1) by redesignating the items relating to
sections 307 and 308 as relating to sections
308 and 309; and
(2) by inserting after the item relating to
section 306 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 307. Promoting ability of voters to
vote by mail.’’.
(d) DEVELOPMENT OF BIOMETRIC
VERIFICATION.—
(1) DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDS.—The Na-
tional Institute of Standards, in consulta-
tion with the Election Assistance Commis-
sion, shall develop standards for the use of
biometric methods which could be used vol-
untarily in place of the signature
verification requirements of section 307(b) of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (as added
by subsection (a)) for purposes of verifying
the identification of an individual voting by
absentee ballot in elections for Federal of-
fice.
(2) PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT.—The Na-
tional Institute of Standards shall solicit
comments from the public in the develop-
ment of standards under paragraph (1).
(3) DEADLINE.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the National Institute of Standards shall
publish the standards developed under para-
graph (1).
Subtitle J—Absent Uniformed Services
Voters and Overseas Voters
SEC. 1701. PRE-ELECTION REPORTS ON AVAIL-
ABILITY AND TRANSMISSION OF AB-
SENTEE BALLOTS.
Section 102(c) of the Uniformed and Over-
seas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C.
20302(c)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(c) REPORTS ON AVAILABILITY, TRANS-
MISSION, AND RECEIPT OF ABSENTEE BAL-
LOTS.—
‘‘(1) PRE-ELECTION REPORT ON ABSENTEE
BALLOT AVAILABILITY.—Not later than 55
days before any regularly scheduled general
election for Federal office, each State shall
submit a report to the Attorney General, the
Election Assistance Commission (hereafter
in this subsection referred to as the ‘Com-
mission’), and the Presidential Designee, and
make that report publicly available that
same day, certifying that absentee ballots
for the election are or will be available for
transmission to absent uniformed services
voters and overseas voters by not later than
45 days before the election. The report shall
be in a form prescribed jointly by the Attor-
ney General and the Commission and shall
require the State to certify specific informa-
tion about ballot availability from each unit
of local government which will administer
the election.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2427
March 6, 2019
‘‘(2) PRE-ELECTION REPORT ON ABSENTEE
BALLOT TRANSMISSION.—Not later than 43
days before any regularly scheduled general
election for Federal office, each State shall
submit a report to the Attorney General, the
Commission, and the Presidential Designee,
and make that report publicly available that
same day, certifying whether all absentee
ballots have been transmitted by not later
than 45 days before the election to all quali-
fied absent uniformed services and overseas
voters whose requests were received at least
45 days before the election. The report shall
be in a form prescribed jointly by the Attor-
ney General and the Commission, and shall
require the State to certify specific informa-
tion about ballot transmission, including the
total numbers of ballot requests received and
ballots transmitted, from each unit of local
government which will administer the elec-
tion.
‘‘(3) POST-ELECTION REPORT ON NUMBER OF
ABSENTEE BALLOTS TRANSMITTED AND RE-
CEIVED.—Not later than 90 days after the
date of each regularly scheduled general
election for Federal office, each State and
unit of local government which administered
the election shall (through the State, in the
case of a unit of local government) submit a
report to the Attorney General, the Commis-
sion, and the Presidential Designee on the
combined number of absentee ballots trans-
mitted to absent uniformed services voters
and overseas voters for the election and the
combined number of such ballots which were
returned by such voters and cast in the elec-
tion, and shall make such report available to
the general public that same day.’’.
SEC. 1702. ENFORCEMENT.
(a) AVAILABILITY OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND
PRIVATE RIGHTS OF ACTION.—Section 105 of
the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absen-
tee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20307) is amended
to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 105. ENFORCEMENT.
‘‘(a) ACTION BY ATTORNEY GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
may bring civil action in an appropriate dis-
trict court for such declaratory or injunctive
relief as may be necessary to carry out this
title.
‘‘(2) PENALTY.—In a civil action brought
under paragraph (1), if the court finds that
the State violated any provision of this title,
it may, to vindicate the public interest, as-
sess a civil penalty against the State—
‘‘(A) in an amount not to exceed $110,000
for each such violation, in the case of a first
violation; or
‘‘(B) in an amount not to exceed $220,000 for
each such violation, for any subsequent vio-
lation.
‘‘(3) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
December 31 of each year, the Attorney Gen-
eral shall submit to Congress an annual re-
port on any civil action brought under para-
graph (1) during the preceding year.
‘‘(b) PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—A person
who is aggrieved by a State’s violation of
this title may bring a civil action in an ap-
propriate district court for such declaratory
or injunctive relief as may be necessary to
carry out this title.
‘‘(c) STATE AS ONLY NECESSARY DEFEND-
ANT.—In any action brought under this sec-
tion, the only necessary party defendant is
the State, and it shall not be a defense to
any such action that a local election official
or a unit of local government is not named
as a defendant, notwithstanding that a State
has exercised the authority described in sec-
tion 576 of the Military and Overseas Voter
Empowerment Act to delegate to another ju-
risdiction in the State any duty or responsi-
bility which is the subject of an action
brought under this section.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to violations alleged to have occurred on or
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1703. REVISIONS TO 45-DAY ABSENTEE BAL-
LOT TRANSMISSION RULE.
(a) REPEAL OF WAIVER AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 102 of the Uni-
formed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Vot-
ing Act (52 U.S.C. 20302) is amended by strik-
ing subsection (g).
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
102(a)(8)(A) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
20302(a)(8)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘ex-
cept as provided in subsection (g),’’.
(b) REQUIRING USE OF EXPRESS DELIVERY IN
CASE OF FAILURE TO MEET REQUIREMENT.—
Section 102 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20302), as
amended by subsection (a), is amended by in-
serting after subsection (f) the following new
subsection:
‘‘(g) REQUIRING USE OF EXPRESS DELIVERY
IN CASE OF FAILURE TO TRANSMIT BALLOTS
WITHIN DEADLINES.—
‘‘(1) TRANSMISSION OF BALLOT BY EXPRESS
DELIVERY.—If a State fails to meet the re-
quirement of subsection (a)(8)(A) to transmit
a validly requested absentee ballot to an ab-
sent uniformed services voter or overseas
voter not later than 45 days before the elec-
tion (in the case in which the request is re-
ceived at least 45 days before the election)—
‘‘(A) the State shall transmit the ballot to
the voter by express delivery; or
‘‘(B) in the case of a voter who has des-
ignated that absentee ballots be transmitted
electronically in accordance with subsection
(f)(1), the State shall transmit the ballot to
the voter electronically.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR TRANSMISSION FEWER
THAN 40 DAYS BEFORE THE ELECTION.—If, in
carrying out paragraph (1), a State transmits
an absentee ballot to an absent uniformed
services voter or overseas voter fewer than 40
days before the election, the State shall en-
able the ballot to be returned by the voter by
express delivery, except that in the case of
an absentee ballot of an absent uniformed
services voter for a regularly scheduled gen-
eral election for Federal office, the State
may satisfy the requirement of this para-
graph by notifying the voter of the proce-
dures for the collection and delivery of such
ballots under section 103A.
‘‘(3) PAYMENT FOR USE OF EXPRESS DELIV-
ERY.—The State shall be responsible for the
payment of the costs associated with the use
of express delivery for the transmittal of bal-
lots under this subsection.’’.
(c) CLARIFICATION OF TREATMENT OF WEEK-
ENDS.—Section 102(a)(8)(A) of such Act (52
U.S.C. 20302(a)(8)(A)) is amended by striking
‘‘the election;’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘the election (or, if the 45th day preceding
the election is a weekend or legal public hol-
iday, not later than the most recent week-
day which precedes such 45th day and which
is not a legal public holiday, but only if the
request is received by at least such most re-
cent weekday);’’.
SEC. 1704. USE OF SINGLE ABSENTEE BALLOT AP-
PLICATION FOR SUBSEQUENT ELEC-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 104 of the Uni-
formed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Vot-
ing Act (52 U.S.C. 20306) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘SEC. 104. USE OF SINGLE APPLICATION FOR
SUBSEQUENT ELECTIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—If a State accepts and
processes an official post card form (pre-
scribed under section 101) submitted by an
absent uniformed services voter or overseas
voter for simultaneous voter registration
and absentee ballot application (in accord-
ance with section 102(a)(4)) and the voter re-
quests that the application be considered an
application for an absentee ballot for each
subsequent election for Federal office held in
the State through the next regularly sched-
uled general election for Federal office (in-
cluding any runoff elections which may
occur as a result of the outcome of such gen-
eral election), the State shall provide an ab-
sentee ballot to the voter for each such sub-
sequent election.
‘‘(b) EXCEPTION FOR VOTERS CHANGING REG-
ISTRATION.—Subsection (a) shall not apply
with respect to a voter registered to vote in
a State for any election held after the voter
notifies the State that the voter no longer
wishes to be registered to vote in the State
or after the State determines that the voter
has registered to vote in another State or is
otherwise no longer eligible to vote in the
State.
‘‘(c) PROHIBITION OF REFUSAL OF APPLICA-
TION ON GROUNDS OF EARLY SUBMISSION.—A
State may not refuse to accept or to process,
with respect to any election for Federal of-
fice, any otherwise valid voter registration
application or absentee ballot application
(including the postcard form prescribed
under section 101) submitted by an absent
uniformed services voter or overseas voter
on the grounds that the voter submitted the
application before the first date on which the
State otherwise accepts or processes such ap-
plications for that election which are sub-
mitted by absentee voters who are not mem-
bers of the uniformed services or overseas
citizens.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to voter registration and absentee bal-
lot applications which are submitted to a
State or local election official on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1705. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The amendments made by this subtitle
shall apply with respect to elections occur-
ring on or after January 1, 2020.
Subtitle K—Poll Worker Recruitment and
Training
SEC. 1801. GRANTS TO STATES FOR POLL WORK-
ER RECRUITMENT AND TRAINING.
(a) GRANTS BY ELECTION ASSISTANCE COM-
MISSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Election Assistance
Commission (hereafter referred to as the
‘‘Commission’’) shall, subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations provided to carry
out this section, make a grant to each eligi-
ble State for recruiting and training individ-
uals to serve as poll workers on dates of elec-
tions for public office.
(2) USE OF COMMISSION MATERIALS.—In car-
rying out activities with a grant provided
under this section, the recipient of the grant
shall use the manual prepared by the Com-
mission on successful practices for poll
worker recruiting, training and retention as
an interactive training tool, and shall de-
velop training programs with the participa-
tion and input of experts in adult learning.
(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR ELIGIBILITY.—
(1) APPLICATION.—Each State that desires
to receive a payment under this section shall
submit an application for the payment to the
Commission at such time and in such man-
ner and containing such information as the
Commission shall require.
(2) CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.—Each appli-
cation submitted under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) describe the activities for which assist-
ance under this section is sought;
(B) provide assurances that the funds pro-
vided under this section will be used to sup-
plement and not supplant other funds used
to carry out the activities;
(C) provide assurances that the State will
furnish the Commission with information on
the number of individuals who served as poll
workers after recruitment and training with
the funds provided under this section; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2428 March 6, 2019
(D) provide such additional information
and certifications as the Commission deter-
mines to be essential to ensure compliance
with the requirements of this section.
(c) AMOUNT OF GRANT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amount of a grant
made to a State under this section shall be
equal to the product of—
(A) the aggregate amount made available
for grants to States under this section; and
(B) the voting age population percentage
for the State.
(2) VOTING AGE POPULATION PERCENTAGE DE-
FINED.—In paragraph (1), the ‘‘voting age
population percentage’’ for a State is the
quotient of—
(A) the voting age population of the State
(as determined on the basis of the most re-
cent information available from the Bureau
of the Census); and
(B) the total voting age population of all
States (as determined on the basis of the
most recent information available from the
Bureau of the Census).
(d) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—
(1) REPORTS BY RECIPIENTS OF GRANTS.—Not
later than 6 months after the date on which
the final grant is made under this section,
each recipient of a grant shall submit a re-
port to the Commission on the activities
conducted with the funds provided by the
grant.
(2) REPORTS BY COMMISSION.—Not later
than 1 year after the date on which the final
grant is made under this section, the Com-
mission shall submit a report to Congress on
the grants made under this section and the
activities carried out by recipients with the
grants, and shall include in the report such
recommendations as the Commission con-
siders appropriate.
(e) FUNDING.—
(1) CONTINUING AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNT AP-
PROPRIATED.—Any amount appropriated to
carry out this section shall remain available
without fiscal year limitation until ex-
pended.
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Of the
amount appropriated for any fiscal year to
carry out this section, not more than 3 per-
cent shall be available for administrative ex-
penses of the Commission.
SEC. 1802. STATE DEFINED.
In this subtitle, the term ‘‘State’’ includes
the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the
United States Virgin Islands, and the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Subtitle L—Enhancement of Enforcement
SEC. 1811. ENHANCEMENT OF ENFORCEMENT OF
HELP AMERICA VOTE ACT OF 2002.
(a) COMPLAINTS; AVAILABILITY OF PRIVATE
RIGHT OF ACTION.—Section 401 of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21111) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Attorney General’’
and inserting ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attor-
ney General’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsections:
‘‘(b) FILING OF COMPLAINTS BY AGGRIEVED
PERSONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person who is ag-
grieved by a violation of title III which has
occurred, is occurring, or is about to occur
may file a written, signed, notarized com-
plaint with the Attorney General describing
the violation and requesting the Attorney
General to take appropriate action under
this section. The Attorney General shall im-
mediately provide a copy of a complaint filed
under the previous sentence to the entity re-
sponsible for administering the State-based
administrative complaint procedures de-
scribed in section 402(a) for the State in-
volved.
‘‘(2) RESPONSE BY ATTORNEY GENERAL.—The
Attorney General shall respond to each com-
plaint filed under paragraph (1), in accord-
ance with procedures established by the At-
torney General that require responses and
determinations to be made within the same
(or shorter) deadlines which apply to a State
under the State-based administrative com-
plaint procedures described in section
402(a)(2). The Attorney General shall imme-
diately provide a copy of the response made
under the previous sentence to the entity re-
sponsible for administering the State-based
administrative complaint procedures de-
scribed in section 402(a) for the State in-
volved.
‘‘(c) AVAILABILITY OF PRIVATE RIGHT OF AC-
TION.—Any person who is authorized to file a
complaint under subsection (b)(1) (including
any individual who seeks to enforce the indi-
vidual’s right to a voter-verified paper bal-
lot, the right to have the voter-verified paper
ballot counted in accordance with this Act,
or any other right under title III) may file an
action under section 1979 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States (42 U.S.C. 1983)
to enforce the uniform and nondiscrim-
inatory election technology and administra-
tion requirements under subtitle A of title
III.
‘‘(d) NO EFFECT ON STATE PROCEDURES.—
Nothing in this section may be construed to
affect the availability of the State-based ad-
ministrative complaint procedures required
under section 402 to any person filing a com-
plaint under this subsection.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to violations occurring with respect to elec-
tions for Federal office held in 2020 or any
succeeding year.
Subtitle M—Federal Election Integrity
SEC. 1821. PROHIBITION ON CAMPAIGN ACTIVI-
TIES BY CHIEF STATE ELECTION AD-
MINISTRATION OFFICIALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 319 the following new section:
‘‘CAMPAIGN ACTIVITIES BY CHIEF STATE
ELECTION ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
‘‘SEC. 319A. (a) PROHIBITION.—It shall be
unlawful for a chief State election adminis-
tration official to take an active part in po-
litical management or in a political cam-
paign with respect to any election for Fed-
eral office over which such official has super-
visory authority.
‘‘(b) CHIEF STATE ELECTION ADMINISTRA-
TION OFFICIAL.—The term ‘chief State elec-
tion administration official’ means the high-
est State official with responsibility for the
administration of Federal elections under
State law.
‘‘(c) ACTIVE PART IN POLITICAL MANAGE-
MENT OR IN A POLITICAL CAMPAIGN.—The
term ‘active part in political management or
in a political campaign’ means—
‘‘(1) serving as a member of an authorized
committee of a candidate for Federal office;
‘‘(2) the use of official authority or influ-
ence for the purpose of interfering with or af-
fecting the result of an election for Federal
office;
‘‘(3) the solicitation, acceptance, or receipt
of a contribution from any person on behalf
of a candidate for Federal office; and
‘‘(4) any other act which would be prohib-
ited under paragraph (2) or (3) of section
7323(b) of title 5, United States Code, if taken
by an individual to whom such paragraph ap-
plies (other than any prohibition on running
for public office).
‘‘(d) EXCEPTION IN CASE OF RECUSAL FROM
ADMINISTRATION OF ELECTIONS INVOLVING OF-
FICIAL OR IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—This section does not
apply to a chief State election administra-
tion official with respect to an election for
Federal office in which the official or an im-
mediate family member of the official is a
candidate, but only if—
‘‘(A) such official recuses himself or herself
from all of the official’s responsibilities for
the administration of such election; and
‘‘(B) the official who assumes responsi-
bility for supervising the administration of
the election does not report directly to such
official.
‘‘(2) IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER DEFINED.—
In paragraph (1), the term ‘immediate family
member’ means, with respect to a candidate,
a father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sis-
ter, husband, wife, father-in-law, or mother-
in-law.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to elections for Federal office held
after December 2019.
Subtitle N—Promoting Voter Access Through
Election Administration Improvements
PART 1—PROMOTING VOTER ACCESS
SEC. 1901. TREATMENT OF INSTITUTIONS OF
HIGHER EDUCATION.
(a) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS AS
VOTER REGISTRATION AGENCIES UNDER NA-
TIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION ACT OF 1993.—
Section 7(a) of the National Voter Registra-
tion Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20506(a)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of sub-
paragraph (A);
(B) by striking the period at the end of
subparagraph (B) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(C) each institution of higher education
which has a program participation agree-
ment in effect with the Secretary of Edu-
cation under section 487 of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094), other than
an institution which is treated as a contrib-
uting agency under the Automatic Voter
Registration Act of 2019.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (6)(A), by inserting ‘‘or, in
the case of an institution of higher edu-
cation, with each registration of a student
for enrollment in a course of study, includ-
ing enrollment in a program of distance edu-
cation, as defined in section 103(7) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1003(7)),’’ after ‘‘assistance,’’.
(b) RESPONSIBILITIES OF INSTITUTIONS
UNDER HIGHER EDUCATION ACT OF 1965.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 487(a)(23) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1094(a)(23)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(23)(A)(i) The institution will ensure that
an appropriate staff person or office is des-
ignated publicly as a ‘Campus Vote Coordi-
nator’ and will ensure that such person’s or
office’s contact information is included on
the institution’s website.
‘‘(ii) Not fewer than twice during each cal-
endar year (beginning with 2020), the Campus
Vote Coordinator shall transmit electroni-
cally to each student enrolled in the institu-
tion (including students enrolled in distance
education programs) a message containing
the following information:
‘‘(I) Information on the location of polling
places in the jurisdiction in which the insti-
tution is located, together with information
on available methods of transportation to
and from such polling places.
‘‘(II) A referral to a government-affiliated
website or online platform which provides
centralized voter registration information
for all States, including access to applicable
voter registration forms and information to
assist individuals who are not registered to
vote in registering to vote.
‘‘(III) Any additional voter registration
and voting information the Coordinator con-
siders appropriate, in consultation with the
appropriate State election official.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2429
March 6, 2019
‘‘(iii) In addition to transmitting the mes-
sage described in clause (ii) not fewer than
twice during each calendar year, the Campus
Vote Coordinator shall transmit the message
under such clause not fewer than 30 days
prior to the deadline for registering to vote
for any election for Federal, State, or local
office in the State.
‘‘(B) If the institution in its normal course
of operations requests each student reg-
istering for enrollment in a course of study,
including students registering for enroll-
ment in a program of distance education, to
affirm whether or not the student is a United
States citizen, the institution will comply
with the applicable requirements for a con-
tributing agency under the Automatic Voter
Registration Act of 2019.
‘‘(C) If the institution is not described in
subparagraph (B), the institution will com-
ply with the requirements for a voter reg-
istration agency in the State in which it is
located in accordance with section 7 of the
National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52
U.S.C. 20506).
‘‘(D) This paragraph applies only with re-
spect to an institution which is located in a
State to which section 4(b) of the National
Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C.
20503(b)) does not apply.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection shall apply with re-
spect to elections held on or after January 1,
2020.
(c) GRANTS TO INSTITUTIONS DEM-
ONSTRATING EXCELLENCE IN STUDENT VOTER
REGISTRATION.—
(1) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary of
Education may award competitive grants to
public and private nonprofit institutions of
higher education that are subject to the re-
quirements of section 487(a)(23) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094(a)(23)),
as amended by subsection (a) and that the
Secretary determines have demonstrated ex-
cellence in registering students to vote in
elections for public office beyond meeting
the minimum requirements of such section.
(2) ELIGIBILITY.—An institution of higher
education is eligible to receive a grant under
this subsection if the institution submits to
the Secretary of Education, at such time and
in such form as the Secretary may require,
an application containing such information
and assurances as the Secretary may require
to make the determination described in
paragraph (1), including information and as-
surances that the institution carried out ac-
tivities to promote voter registration by stu-
dents, such as the following:
(A) Sponsoring large on-campus voter mo-
bilization efforts.
(B) Engaging the surrounding community
in nonpartisan voter registration and get out
the vote efforts.
(C) Creating a website for students with
centralized information about voter registra-
tion and election dates.
(D) Inviting candidates to speak on cam-
pus.
(E) Offering rides to students to the polls
to increase voter education, registration,
and mobilization.
(3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated for
fiscal year 2020 and each succeeding fiscal
year such sums as may be necessary to
award grants under this subsection.
(d) SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO OPTION
OF STUDENTS TO REGISTER IN JURISDICTION OF
INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION OR JURIS-
DICTION OF DOMICILE.—It is the sense of Con-
gress that, as provided under existing law,
students who attend an institution of higher
education and reside in the jurisdiction of
the institution while attending the institu-
tion should have the option of registering to
vote in elections for Federal office in that
jurisdiction or in the jurisdiction of their
own domicile.
SEC. 1902. MINIMUM NOTIFICATION REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR VOTERS AFFECTED BY
POLLING PLACE CHANGES.
(a) REQUIREMENTS.—Section 302 of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21082), as
amended by section 1601(a), is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (f) as sub-
section (g); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(f) MINIMUM NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
FOR VOTERS AFFECTED BY POLLING PLACE
CHANGES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If a State assigns an in-
dividual who is a registered voter in a State
to a polling place with respect to an election
for Federal office which is not the same poll-
ing place to which the individual was pre-
viously assigned with respect to the most re-
cent election for Federal office in the State
in which the individual was eligible to vote—
‘‘(A) the State shall notify the individual
of the location of the polling place not later
than 7 days before the date of the election;
or
‘‘(B) if the State makes such an assign-
ment fewer than 7 days before the date of the
election and the individual appears on the
date of the election at the polling place to
which the individual was previously as-
signed, the State shall make every reason-
able effort to enable the individual to vote
on the date of the election.
‘‘(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This subsection
shall apply with respect to elections held on
or after January 1, 2020.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
302(g) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 21082(g)), as re-
designated by subsection (a) and as amended
by section 1601(b), is amended by striking
‘‘(d)(2) and (e)(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘(d)(2), (e)(2),
and (f)(2)’’.
SEC. 1903. PERMITTING USE OF SWORN WRITTEN
STATEMENT TO MEET IDENTIFICA-
TION REQUIREMENTS FOR VOTING.
(a) PERMITTING USE OF STATEMENT.—Title
III of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52
U.S.C. 21081 et seq.) is amended by inserting
after section 303 the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 303A. PERMITTING USE OF SWORN WRIT-
TEN STATEMENT TO MEET IDENTI-
FICATION REQUIREMENTS.
‘‘(a) USE OF STATEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (c), if a State has in effect a re-
quirement that an individual present identi-
fication as a condition of receiving and cast-
ing a ballot in an election for Federal office,
the State shall permit the individual to meet
the requirement—
‘‘(A) in the case of an individual who de-
sires to vote in person, by presenting the ap-
propriate State or local election official with
a sworn written statement, signed by the in-
dividual under penalty of perjury, attesting
to the individual’s identity and attesting
that the individual is eligible to vote in the
election; or
‘‘(B) in the case of an individual who de-
sires to vote by mail, by submitting with the
ballot the statement described in subpara-
graph (A).
‘‘(2) DEVELOPMENT OF PRE-PRINTED VERSION
OF STATEMENT BY COMMISSION.—The Commis-
sion shall develop a pre-printed version of
the statement described in paragraph (1)(A)
which includes a blank space for an indi-
vidual to provide a name and signature for
use by election officials in States which are
subject to paragraph (1).
‘‘(3) PROVIDING PRE-PRINTED COPY OF STATE-
MENT.—A State which is subject to para-
graph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) make copies of the pre-printed version
of the statement described in paragraph
(1)(A) which is prepared by the Commission
available at polling places for election offi-
cials to distribute to individuals who desire
to vote in person; and
‘‘(B) include a copy of such pre-printed
version of the statement with each blank ab-
sentee or other ballot transmitted to an indi-
vidual who desires to vote by mail.
‘‘(b) REQUIRING USE OF BALLOT IN SAME
MANNER AS INDIVIDUALS PRESENTING IDENTI-
FICATION.—An individual who presents or
submits a sworn written statement in ac-
cordance with subsection (a)(1) shall be per-
mitted to cast a ballot in the election in the
same manner as an individual who presents
identification.
‘‘(c) EXCEPTION FOR FIRST-TIME VOTERS
REGISTERING BY MAIL.—Subsections (a) and
(b) do not apply with respect to any indi-
vidual described in paragraph (1) of section
303(b) who is required to meet the require-
ments of paragraph (2) of such section.’’.
(b) REQUIRING STATES TO INCLUDE INFORMA-
TION ON USE OF SWORN WRITTEN STATEMENT
IN VOTING INFORMATION MATERIAL POSTED AT
POLLING PLACES.—Section 302(b)(2) of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 21082(b)(2)), as amended by sec-
tion 1072(b) and section 1202(b), is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subpara-
graph (G);
(2) by striking the period at the end of sub-
paragraph (H) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(I) in the case of a State that has in effect
a requirement that an individual present
identification as a condition of receiving and
casting a ballot in an election for Federal of-
fice, information on how an individual may
meet such requirement by presenting a
sworn written statement in accordance with
section 303A.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 303 the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 303A. Permitting use of sworn written
statement to meet identifica-
tion requirements.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to elections occurring on or after the date of
the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1904. POSTAGE-FREE BALLOTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 34 of title 39,
United States Code, is amended by adding
after section 3406 the following:
‘‘§ 3407. Absentee ballots
‘‘(a) Any absentee ballot for any election
for Federal office shall be carried expedi-
tiously, with postage prepaid by the State or
unit of local government responsible for the
administration of the election.
‘‘(b) As used in this section, the term ‘ab-
sentee ballot’ means any ballot transmitted
by a voter by mail in an election for Federal
office, but does not include any ballot cov-
ered by section 3406.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 34 of such title is amend-
ed by inserting after the item relating to
section 3406 the following:
‘‘3407. Absentee ballots carried free of post-
age.’’.
SEC. 1905. REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS IN-
CURRED BY STATES IN ESTAB-
LISHING PROGRAM TO TRACK AND
CONFIRM RECEIPT OF ABSENTEE
BALLOTS.
(a) REIMBURSEMENT.—Subtitle D of title II
of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (42
U.S.C. 15401 et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following new part:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2430 March 6, 2019
‘‘PART 7—PAYMENTS TO REIMBURSE
STATES FOR COSTS INCURRED IN ES-
TABLISHING PROGRAM TO TRACK AND
CONFIRM RECEIPT OF ABSENTEE BAL-
LOTS
‘‘SEC. 297. PAYMENTS TO STATES.
‘‘(a) PAYMENTS FOR COSTS OF ESTABLISHING
PROGRAM.—In accordance with this section,
the Commission shall make a payment to a
State to reimburse the State for the costs in-
curred in establishing, if the State so choos-
es to establish, an absentee ballot tracking
program with respect to elections for Fed-
eral office held in the State (including costs
incurred prior to the date of the enactment
of this part).
‘‘(b) ABSENTEE BALLOT TRACKING PROGRAM
DESCRIBED.—
‘‘(1) PROGRAM DESCRIBED.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In this part, an ‘absen-
tee ballot tracking program’ is a program to
track and confirm the receipt of absentee
ballots in an election for Federal office
under which the State or local election offi-
cial responsible for the receipt of voted ab-
sentee ballots in the election carries out pro-
cedures to track and confirm the receipt of
such ballots, and makes information on the
receipt of such ballots available to the indi-
vidual who cast the ballot, by means of on-
line access using the Internet site of the offi-
cial’s office.
‘‘(B) INFORMATION ON WHETHER VOTE WAS
COUNTED.—The information referred to under
subparagraph (A) with respect to the receipt
of an absentee ballot shall include informa-
tion regarding whether the vote cast on the
ballot was counted, and, in the case of a vote
which was not counted, the reasons therefor.
‘‘(2) USE OF TOLL-FREE TELEPHONE NUMBER
BY OFFICIALS WITHOUT INTERNET SITE.—A pro-
gram established by a State or local election
official whose office does not have an Inter-
net site may meet the description of a pro-
gram under paragraph (1) if the official has
established a toll-free telephone number that
may be used by an individual who cast an ab-
sentee ballot to obtain the information on
the receipt of the voted absentee ballot as
provided under such paragraph.
‘‘(c) CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE AND
COSTS.—
‘‘(1) CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.—In order to
receive a payment under this section, a
State shall submit to the Commission a
statement containing—
‘‘(A) a certification that the State has es-
tablished an absentee ballot tracking pro-
gram with respect to elections for Federal
office held in the State; and
‘‘(B) a statement of the costs incurred by
the State in establishing the program.
‘‘(2) AMOUNT OF PAYMENT.—The amount of
a payment made to a State under this sec-
tion shall be equal to the costs incurred by
the State in establishing the absentee ballot
tracking program, as set forth in the state-
ment submitted under paragraph (1), except
that such amount may not exceed the prod-
uct of—
‘‘(A) the number of jurisdictions in the
State which are responsible for operating the
program; and
‘‘(B) $3,000.
‘‘(3) LIMIT ON NUMBER OF PAYMENTS RE-
CEIVED.—A State may not receive more than
one payment under this part.
‘‘SEC. 297A. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIA-
TIONS.
‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized
to be appropriated to the Commission for fis-
cal year 2020 and each succeeding fiscal year
such sums as may be necessary for payments
under this part.
‘‘(b) CONTINUING AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—
Any amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization under this section shall re-
main available until expended.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act is amended by adding at
the end of the items relating to subtitle D of
title II the following:
‘‘PART 7—PAYMENTS TO REIMBURSE STATES
FOR COSTS INCURRED IN ESTABLISHING PRO-
GRAM TO TRACK AND CONFIRM RECEIPT OF
ABSENTEE BALLOTS
‘‘Sec. 297. Payments to States.
‘‘Sec. 297A. Authorization of appropria-
tions.’’.
SEC. 1906. VOTER INFORMATION RESPONSE SYS-
TEMS AND HOTLINE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF SYS-
TEMS AND SERVICES.—
(1) STATE-BASED RESPONSE SYSTEMS.—The
Attorney General shall coordinate the estab-
lishment of a State-based response system
for responding to questions and complaints
from individuals voting or seeking to vote,
or registering to vote or seeking to register
to vote, in elections for Federal office. Such
system shall provide—
(A) State-specific, same-day, and imme-
diate assistance to such individuals, includ-
ing information on how to register to vote,
the location and hours of operation of poll-
ing places, and how to obtain absentee bal-
lots; and
(B) State-specific, same-day, and imme-
diate assistance to individuals encountering
problems with registering to vote or voting,
including individuals encountering intimida-
tion or deceptive practices.
(2) HOTLINE.—The Attorney General, in
consultation with State election officials,
shall establish and operate a toll-free tele-
phone service, using a telephone number
that is accessible throughout the United
States and that uses easily identifiable nu-
merals, through which individuals through-
out the United States—
(A) may connect directly to the State-
based response system described in para-
graph (1) with respect to the State involved;
(B) may obtain information on voting in
elections for Federal office, including infor-
mation on how to register to vote in such
elections, the locations and hours of oper-
ation of polling places, and how to obtain ab-
sentee ballots; and
(C) may report information to the Attor-
ney General on problems encountered in reg-
istering to vote or voting, including
incidences of voter intimidation or suppres-
sion.
(3) COLLABORATION WITH STATE AND LOCAL
ELECTION OFFICIALS.—
(A) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION FROM
STATES.—The Attorney General shall coordi-
nate the collection of information on State
and local election laws and policies, includ-
ing information on the Statewide computer-
ized voter registration lists maintained
under title III of the Help America Vote Act
of 2002, so that individuals who contact the
free telephone service established under
paragraph (2) on the date of an election for
Federal office may receive an immediate re-
sponse on that day.
(B) FORWARDING QUESTIONS AND COMPLAINTS
TO STATES.—If an individual contacts the
free telephone service established under
paragraph (2) on the date of an election for
Federal office with a question or complaint
with respect to a particular State or juris-
diction within a State, the Attorney General
shall forward the question or complaint im-
mediately to the appropriate election official
of the State or jurisdiction so that the offi-
cial may answer the question or remedy the
complaint on that date.
(4) CONSULTATION REQUIREMENTS FOR DE-
VELOPMENT OF SYSTEMS AND SERVICES.—The
Attorney General shall ensure that the
State-based response system under para-
graph (1) and the free telephone service
under paragraph (2) are each developed in
consultation with civil rights organizations,
voting rights groups, State and local elec-
tion officials, voter protection groups, and
other interested community organizations,
especially those that have experience in the
operation of similar systems and services.
(b) USE OF SERVICE BY INDIVIDUALS WITH
DISABILITIES AND INDIVIDUALS WITH LIMITED
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY.—The Attor-
ney General shall design and operate the
telephone service established under this sec-
tion in a manner that ensures that individ-
uals with disabilities are fully able to use
the service, and that assistance is provided
in any language in which the State (or any
jurisdiction in the State) is required to pro-
vide election materials under section 203 of
the Voting Rights Act of 1965..
(c) VOTER HOTLINE TASK FORCE.—
(1) APPOINTMENT BY ATTORNEY GENERAL.—
The Attorney General shall appoint individ-
uals (in such number as the Attorney Gen-
eral considers appropriate but in no event
fewer than 3) to serve on a Voter Hotline
Task Force to provide ongoing analysis and
assessment of the operation of the telephone
service established under this section, and
shall give special consideration in making
appointments to the Task Force to individ-
uals who represent civil rights organizations.
At least one member of the Task Force shall
be a representative of an organization pro-
moting voting rights or civil rights which
has experience in the operation of similar
telephone services or in protecting the rights
of individuals to vote, especially individuals
who are members of racial, ethnic, or lin-
guistic minorities or of communities who
have been adversely affected by efforts to
suppress voting rights.
(2) ELIGIBILITY.—An individual shall be eli-
gible to serve on the Task Force under this
subsection if the individual meets such cri-
teria as the Attorney General may establish,
except that an individual may not serve on
the task force if the individual has been con-
victed of any criminal offense relating to
voter intimidation or voter suppression.
(3) TERM OF SERVICE.—An individual ap-
pointed to the Task Force shall serve a sin-
gle term of 2 years, except that the initial
terms of the members first appointed to the
Task Force shall be staggered so that there
are at least 3 individuals serving on the Task
Force during each year. A vacancy in the
membership of the Task Force shall be filled
in the same manner as the original appoint-
ment.
(4) NO COMPENSATION FOR SERVICE.—Mem-
bers of the Task Force shall serve without
pay, but shall receive travel expenses, in-
cluding per diem in lieu of subsistence, in ac-
cordance with applicable provisions under
subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United
States Code.
(d) BI-ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not
later than March 1 of each odd-numbered
year, the Attorney General shall submit a
report to Congress on the operation of the
telephone service established under this sec-
tion during the previous 2 years, and shall
include in the report—
(1) an enumeration of the number and type
of calls that were received by the service;
(2) a compilation and description of the re-
ports made to the service by individuals cit-
ing instances of voter intimidation or sup-
pression;
(3) an assessment of the effectiveness of
the service in making information available
to all households in the United States with
telephone service;
(4) any recommendations developed by the
Task Force established under subsection (c)
with respect to how voting systems may be
maintained or upgraded to better accommo-
date voters and better ensure the integrity
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2431
March 6, 2019
of elections, including but not limited to
identifying how to eliminate coordinated
voter suppression efforts and how to estab-
lish effective mechanisms for distributing
updates on changes to voting requirements;
and
(5) any recommendations on best practices
for the State-based response systems estab-
lished under subsection (a)(1).
(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized
to be appropriated to the Attorney General
for fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal
year such sums as may be necessary to carry
out this section.
(2) SET-ASIDE FOR OUTREACH.—Of the
amounts appropriated to carry out this sec-
tion for a fiscal year pursuant to the author-
ization under paragraph (1), not less than 15
percent shall be used for outreach activities
to make the public aware of the availability
of the telephone service established under
this section, with an emphasis on outreach
to individuals with disabilities and individ-
uals with limited proficiency in the English
language.
PART 2—IMPROVEMENTS IN OPERATION
OF ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
SEC. 1911. REAUTHORIZATION OF ELECTION AS-
SISTANCE COMMISSION.
Section 210 of the Help America Vote Act
of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 20930) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘for each of the fiscal years
2003 through 2005’’ and inserting ‘‘for fiscal
year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year’’;
and
(2) by striking ‘‘(but not to exceed
$10,000,000 for each such year)’’.
SEC. 1913. REQUIRING STATES TO PARTICIPATE
IN POST-GENERAL ELECTION SUR-
VEYS.
(a) REQUIREMENT.—Title III of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081 et
seq.), as amended by section 1903(a), is fur-
ther amended by inserting after section 303A
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 303B. REQUIRING PARTICIPATION IN POST-
GENERAL ELECTION SURVEYS.
‘‘(a) REQUIREMENT.—Each State shall fur-
nish to the Commission such information as
the Commission may request for purposes of
conducting any post-election survey of the
States with respect to the administration of
a regularly scheduled general election for
Federal office.
‘‘(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall
apply with respect to the regularly scheduled
general election for Federal office held in
November 2020 and any succeeding elec-
tion.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act, as amended by section
1903(c), is further amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 303A the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 303B. Requiring participation in post-
general election surveys.’’.
SEC. 1914. REPORTS BY NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY ON
USE OF FUNDS TRANSFERRED FROM
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMIS-
SION.
(a) REQUIRING REPORTS ON USE FUNDS AS
CONDITION OF RECEIPT.—Section 231 of the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
20971) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(e) REPORT ON USE OF FUNDS TRANS-
FERRED FROM COMMISSION.—To the extent
that funds are transferred from the Commis-
sion to the Director of the National Institute
of Standards and Technology for purposes of
carrying out this section during any fiscal
year, the Director may not use such funds
unless the Director certifies at the time of
transfer that the Director will submit a re-
port to the Commission not later than 90
days after the end of the fiscal year detailing
how the Director used such funds during the
year.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to fiscal year 2020 and each succeeding
fiscal year.
SEC. 1915. RECOMMENDATIONS TO IMPROVE OP-
ERATIONS OF ELECTION ASSIST-
ANCE COMMISSION.
(a) ASSESSMENT OF INFORMATION TECH-
NOLOGY AND CYBERSECURITY.—Not later than
December 31, 2019, the Election Assistance
Commission shall carry out an assessment of
the security and effectiveness of the Com-
mission’s information technology systems,
including the cybersecurity of such systems.
(b) IMPROVEMENTS TO ADMINISTRATIVE COM-
PLAINT PROCEDURES.—
(1) REVIEW OF PROCEDURES.—The Election
Assistance Commission shall carry out a re-
view of the effectiveness and efficiency of
the State-based administrative complaint
procedures established and maintained under
section 402 of the Help America Vote Act of
2002 (52 U.S.C. 21112) for the investigation
and resolution of allegations of violations of
title III of such Act.
(2) RECOMMENDATIONS TO STREAMLINE PRO-
CEDURES.—Not later than December 31, 2019,
the Commission shall submit to Congress a
report on the review carried out under para-
graph (1), and shall include in the report
such recommendations as the Commission
considers appropriate to streamline and im-
prove the procedures which are the subject of
the review.
SEC. 1916. REPEAL OF EXEMPTION OF ELECTION
ASSISTANCE COMMISSION FROM
CERTAIN GOVERNMENT CON-
TRACTING REQUIREMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 205 of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 20925) is
amended by striking subsection (e).
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to contracts entered into by the Elec-
tion Assistance Commission on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
PART 3—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 1921. APPLICATION OF LAWS TO COMMON-
WEALTH OF NORTHERN MARIANA IS-
LANDS.
(a) NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION ACT OF
1993.—Section 3(4) of the National Voter Reg-
istration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20502(4)) is
amended by striking ‘‘States and the Dis-
trict of Columbia’’ and inserting ‘‘States, the
District of Columbia, and the Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands’’.
(b) HELP AMERICA VOTE ACT OF 2002.—
(1) COVERAGE OF COMMONWEALTH OF THE
NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS.—Section 901 of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21141) is amended by striking ‘‘and the
United States Virgin Islands’’ and inserting
‘‘the United States Virgin Islands, and the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO HELP
AMERICA VOTE ACT OF 2002.—Such Act is fur-
ther amended as follows:
(A) The second sentence of section 213(a)(2)
(52 U.S.C. 20943(a)(2)) is amended by striking
‘‘and American Samoa’’ and inserting
‘‘American Samoa, and the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands’’.
(B) Section 252(c)(2) (52 U.S.C. 21002(c)(2)) is
amended by striking ‘‘or the United States
Virgin Islands’’ and inserting ‘‘the United
States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
CONSULTATION OF HELP AMERICA VOTE FOUNDA-
TION WITH LOCAL ELECTION OFFICIALS.—Sec-
tion 90102(c) of title 36, United States Code,
is amended by striking ‘‘and the United
States Virgin Islands’’ and inserting ‘‘the
United States Virgin Islands, and the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands’’.
(4) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection shall apply with re-
spect to fiscal years beginning with the first
fiscal year which begins after funds are ap-
propriated to the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to the
payment under section 2.
SEC. 1922. NO EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as specifically
provided, nothing in this title may be con-
strued to authorize or require conduct pro-
hibited under any of the following laws, or to
supersede, restrict, or limit the application
of such laws:
(1) The Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C.
10301 et seq.).
(2) The Voting Accessibility for the Elderly
and Handicapped Act (52 U.S.C. 20101 et seq.).
(3) The Uniformed and Overseas Citizens
Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20301 et seq.).
(4) The National Voter Registration Act of
1993 (52 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.).
(5) The Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.).
(6) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C.
701 et seq.).
(b) NO EFFECT ON PRECLEARANCE OR OTHER
REQUIREMENTS UNDER VOTING RIGHTS ACT.—
The approval by any person of a payment or
grant application under this title, or any
other action taken by any person under this
title, shall not be considered to have any ef-
fect on requirements for preclearance under
section 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52
U.S.C. 10304) or any other requirements of
such Act.
(c) NO EFFECT ON AUTHORITY OF STATES TO
PROVIDE GREATER OPPORTUNITIES FOR VOT-
ING.—Nothing in this title or the amend-
ments made by this title may be construed
to prohibit any State from enacting any law
which provides greater opportunities for in-
dividuals to register to vote and to vote in
elections for Federal office than are provided
by this title and the amendments made by
this title.
Subtitle O—Severability
SEC. 1931. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title or amendment
made by this title, or the application of a
provision or amendment to any person or
circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this title and amendments
made by this title, and the application of the
provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
TITLE II—ELECTION INTEGRITY
Subtitle A—Findings Reaffirming Commit-
ment of Congress to Restore the Voting
Rights Act
Sec. 2001. Findings reaffirming commitment
of Congress to restore the Vot-
ing Rights Act.
Subtitle B—Findings Relating to Native
American Voting Rights
Sec. 2101. Findings relating to Native Amer-
ican voting rights.
Subtitle C—Findings Relating to District of
Columbia Statehood
Sec. 2201. Findings relating to District of
Columbia statehood.
Subtitle D—Findings Relating to Territorial
Voting Rights
Sec. 2301. Findings relating to territorial
voting rights.
Subtitle E—Redistricting Reform
Sec. 2400. Short title; finding of constitu-
tional authority.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2432 March 6, 2019
PART 1—REQUIREMENTS FOR CONGRESSIONAL
REDISTRICTING
Sec. 2401. Requiring congressional redis-
tricting to be conducted
through plan of independent
State commission.
Sec. 2402. Ban on mid-decade redistricting.
PART 2—INDEPENDENT REDISTRICTING
COMMISSIONS
Sec. 2411. Independent redistricting commis-
sion.
Sec. 2412. Establishment of selection pool of
individuals eligible to serve as
members of commission.
Sec. 2413. Criteria for redistricting plan by
independent commission; public
notice and input.
Sec. 2414. Establishment of related entities.
PART 3—ROLE OF COURTS IN DEVELOPMENT OF
REDISTRICTING PLANS
Sec. 2421. Enactment of plan developed by 3-
judge court.
Sec. 2422. Special rule for redistricting con-
ducted under order of Federal
court.
PART 4—ADMINISTRATIVE AND MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS
Sec. 2431. Payments to States for carrying
out redistricting.
Sec. 2432. Civil enforcement.
Sec. 2433. State apportionment notice de-
fined.
Sec. 2434. No effect on elections for State
and local office.
Sec. 2435. Effective date.
Subtitle F—Saving Eligible Voters From
Voter Purging
Sec. 2501. Short title.
Sec. 2502. Conditions for removal of voters
from list of registered voters.
Subtitle G—No Effect on Authority of States
to Provide Greater Opportunities for Voting
Sec. 2601. No effect on authority of States to
provide greater opportunities
for voting.
Subtitle H—Severability
Sec. 2701. Severability.
Subtitle A—Findings Reaffirming Commit-
ment of Congress to Restore the Voting
Rights Act
SEC. 2001. FINDINGS REAFFIRMING COMMIT-
MENT OF CONGRESS TO RESTORE
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The right to vote for all Americans is
sacrosanct and rules for voting and election
administration should protect the right to
vote and promote voter participation.
(2) The Voting Rights Act has empowered
the Department of Justice and Federal
courts for nearly a half a century to block
discriminatory voting practices before their
implementation in States and localities with
the most troubling histories and ongoing
records of racial discrimination.
(3) There continues to be an alarming
movement to erect barriers to make it more
difficult for Americans to participate in our
Nation’s democratic process. The Nation has
witnessed unprecedented efforts to turn back
the clock and erect barriers to voting for
communities of color which have faced his-
toric and continuing discrimination, as well
as disabled, young, elderly, and low-income
Americans.
(4) The Supreme Court’s 2013 Shelby County
v. Holder decision gutted decades-long Fed-
eral protections for communities of color
that face historic and continuing discrimina-
tion, emboldening States and local jurisdic-
tions to pass voter suppression laws and im-
plement procedures, such as those requiring
photo identification, limiting early voting
hours, eliminating same-day registration,
purging voters from the rolls, and reducing
the number of polling places. Congress is
committed to reversing the devastating im-
pact of this decision.
(5) Racial discrimination in voting is a
clear and persistent problem. The actions of
States and localities around the country
post-Shelby County, including at least 10 find-
ings by Federal courts of intentional dis-
crimination, underscore the need for Con-
gress to conduct investigatory and evi-
dentiary hearings to determine the legisla-
tion necessary to restore the Voting Rights
Act and combat continuing efforts in Amer-
ica that suppress the free exercise of the
franchise in communities of color.
(6) The 2018 midterm election provides fur-
ther evidence that systemic voter discrimi-
nation and intimidation continues to occur
in communities of color across the country,
making it clear that democracy reform can-
not be achieved until Congress restores key
provisions of the Voting Rights Act.
(7) Congress must remain vigilant in pro-
tecting every eligible citizen’s right to vote.
Congress should respond by modernizing the
electoral system to—
(A) improve access to the ballot;
(B) enhance the integrity and security of
our voting systems;
(C) ensure greater accountability for the
administration of elections; and
(D) restore protections for voters against
practices in States and localities plagued by
the persistence of voter disenfranchisement;
and
(E) ensure that Federal civil rights laws
protect the rights of voters against discrimi-
natory and deceptive practices.
Subtitle B—Findings Relating to Native
American Voting Rights
SEC. 2101. FINDINGS RELATING TO NATIVE AMER-
ICAN VOTING RIGHTS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The right to vote for all Americans is
sacred. Congress must fulfill the Federal
Government’s trust responsibility to protect
and promote Native Americans’ exercise of
their fundamental right to vote, including
equal access to voter registration voting
mechanisms and locations, and the ability to
serve as election officials.
(2) The Native American Voting Rights
Coalition’s four-State survey of voter dis-
crimination (2016) and nine field hearings in
Indian Country (2017-2018) revealed obstacles
that Native Americans must overcome, in-
cluding a lack of accessible and proximate
registration and polling sites, nontraditional
addresses for residents on Indian reserva-
tions, inadequate language assistance for
Tribal members, and voter identification
laws that discriminate against Native Amer-
icans. The Department of Justice and courts
have recognized that some jurisdictions have
been unresponsive to reasonable requests
from federally recognized Indian Tribes for
more accessible and proximate voter reg-
istration sites and in-person voting loca-
tions.
(3) The 2018 elections provide further evi-
dence that systemic voter discrimination
and intimidation continues to occur in com-
munities of color and Tribal lands across the
country, making it clear that democracy re-
form cannot be achieved until Congress re-
stores key provisions of the Voting Rights
Act and passes additional protections.
(4) Congress has broad, plenary authority
to enact legislation to safeguard the voting
rights of Native American voters.
(5) Congress must conduct investigatory
and evidentiary hearings to determine the
necessary legislation to restore the Voting
Rights Act and combat continuous efforts
that suppress the voter franchise within
Tribal lands, to include, but not to be lim-
ited to, the Native American Voting Rights
Act (NAVRA) and the Voting Rights Ad-
vancement Act (VRAA).
Subtitle C—Findings Relating to District of
Columbia Statehood
SEC. 2201. FINDINGS RELATING TO DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA STATEHOOD.
Congress finds the following:
(1) District of Columbia residents deserve
full congressional voting rights and self-gov-
ernment, which only statehood can provide.
(2) The 700,000 residents of the District of
Columbia pay more Federal taxes per capita
than residents of any State in the country,
yet do not have full and equal representation
in Congress and self-government.
(3) Since the founding of the United States,
the residents of the District of Columbia
have always carried all the obligations of
citizenship, including serving in all of the
Nation’s wars and paying Federal taxes, all
without voting representation on the floor in
either Chamber of Congress or freedom from
congressional interference in purely local
matters.
(4) There are no constitutional, historical,
financial, or economic reasons why the
700,000 Americans who live in the District of
Columbia should not be granted statehood.
(5) The District of Columbia has a larger
population than two States, Wyoming and
Vermont, and is close to the population of
the seven States that have a population of
under one million fully represented resi-
dents.
(6) The District of Columbia government
has one of the strongest fiscal positions of
any jurisdiction in the United States, with a
$14.6 billion budget for fiscal year 2019 and a
$2.8 billion general fund balance as of Sep-
tember 30, 2018.
(7) The District of Columbia’s total per-
sonal income is higher than that of seven
States, its per capita personal consumption
expenditures is higher than those of any
State, and its total personal consumption ex-
penditures is greater than those of seven
States.
(8) Congress has authority under article
IV, section 3, clause 1, which gives Congress
power to admit new states to the Union, and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 17, which grants
Congress power over the seat of the Federal
Government, to admit the new State carved
out of the residential areas of the Federal
seat of Government, while maintaining as
the Federal seat of Government the United
States Capitol Complex, the principal Fed-
eral monuments, Federal buildings and
grounds, the National Mall, the White House
and other Federal property.
Subtitle D—Territorial Voting Rights
SEC. 2301. FINDINGS RELATING TO TERRITORIAL
VOTING RIGHTS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The right to vote is one of the most
powerful instruments residents of the terri-
tories of the United States have to ensure
that their voices are heard.
(2) These Americans have played an impor-
tant part in the American democracy for
more than 120 years.
(3) Political participation and the right to
vote are among the highest concerns of terri-
torial residents in part because they were
not always afforded these rights.
(4) Voter participation in the territories
consistently ranks higher than many com-
munities on the mainland.
(5) Territorial residents serve and die, on a
per capita basis, at a higher rate in every
United States war and conflict since WWI, as
an expression of their commitment to Amer-
ican democratic principles and patriotism.
SEC. 2302. CONGRESSIONAL TASK FORCE ON VOT-
ING RIGHTS OF UNITED STATES CIT-
IZEN RESIDENTS OF TERRITORIES
OF THE UNITED STATES.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
within the legislative branch a Congressional
Task Force on Voting Rights of United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2433
March 6, 2019
States Citizen Residents of Territories of the
United States (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘Task Force’’).
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The Task Force shall be
composed of 12 members as follows:
(1) One Member of the House of Represent-
atives, who shall be appointed by the Speak-
er of the House of Representatives, in coordi-
nation with the Chairman of the Committee
on Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
(2) One Member of the House of Represent-
atives, who shall be appointed by the Speak-
er of the House of Representatives, in coordi-
nation with the Chairman of the Committee
on the Judiciary of the House of Representa-
tives.
(3) One Member of the House of Represent-
atives, who shall be appointed by the Speak-
er of the House of Representatives, in coordi-
nation with the Chairman of the Committee
on House Administration of the House of
Representatives.
(4) One Member of the House of Represent-
atives, who shall be appointed by the Minor-
ity Leader of the House of Representatives,
in coordination with the ranking minority
member of the Committee on Natural Re-
sources of the House of Representatives.
(5) One Member of the House of Represent-
atives, who shall be appointed by the Minor-
ity Leader of the House of Representatives,
in coordination with the ranking minority
member of the Committee on the Judiciary
of the House of Representatives.
(6) One Member of the House of Represent-
atives, who shall be appointed by the Minor-
ity Leader of the House of Representatives,
in coordination with the ranking minority
member of the Committee on House Admin-
istration of the House of Representatives.
(7) One Member of the Senate, who shall be
appointed by the Majority Leader of the Sen-
ate, in coordination with the Chairman of
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources of the Senate.
(8) One Member of the Senate, who shall be
appointed by the Majority Leader of the Sen-
ate, in coordination with the Chairman of
the Committee on the Judiciary of the Sen-
ate.
(9) One Member of the Senate, who shall be
appointed by the Majority Leader of the Sen-
ate, in coordination with the Chairman of
the Committee on Rules and Administration
of the Senate.
(10) One Member of the Senate, who shall
be appointed by the Minority Leader of the
Senate, in coordination with the ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate.
(11) One Member of the Senate, who shall
be appointed by the Minority Leader of the
Senate, in coordination with the ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary of the Senate.
(12) One Member of the Senate, who shall
be appointed by the Minority Leader of the
Senate, in coordination with the ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Rules
and Administration of the Senate.
(c) DEADLINE FOR APPOINTMENT.—All ap-
pointments to the Task Force shall be made
not later than 30 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
(d) CHAIR.—The Speaker shall designate
one Member to serve as chair of the Task
Force.
(e) VACANCIES.—Any vacancy in the Task
Force shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment.
(f) STATUS UPDATE.—Between September 1,
2019, and September 30, 2019, the Task Force
shall provide a status update to the House of
Representatives and the Senate that in-
cludes—
(1) information the Task Force has col-
lected; and
(2) a discussion on matters that the chair-
man of the Task Force deems urgent for con-
sideration by Congress.
(g) REPORT.—Not later than December 31,
2019, the Task Force shall issue a report of
its findings to the House of Representatives
and the Senate regarding—
(1) the economic and societal consequences
(through statistical data and other metrics)
that come with political disenfranchisement
of United States citizens in territories of the
United States;
(2) impediments to full and equal voting
rights for United States citizens who are
residents of territories of the United States
in Federal elections, including the election
of the President and Vice President of the
United States;
(3) impediments to full and equal voting
representation in the House of Representa-
tives for United States citizens who are resi-
dents of territories of the United States;
(4) recommended changes that, if adopted,
would allow for full and equal voting rights
for United States citizens who are residents
of territories of the United States in Federal
elections, including the election of the Presi-
dent and Vice President of the United
States;
(5) recommended changes that, if adopted,
would allow for full and equal voting rep-
resentation in the House of Representatives
for United States citizens who are residents
of territories of the United States; and
(6) additional information the Task Force
deems appropriate.
(h) CONSENSUS VIEWS.—To the greatest ex-
tent practicable, the report issued under sub-
section (g) shall reflect the shared views of
all 12 Members, except that the report may
contain dissenting views.
(i) HEARINGS AND SESSIONS.—The Task
Force may, for the purpose of carrying out
this section, hold hearings, sit and act at
times and places, take testimony, and re-
ceive evidence as the Task Force considers
appropriate.
(j) STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION.—In car-
rying out its duties, the Task Force shall
consult with the governments of American
Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, the Common-
wealth of Puerto Rico, and the United States
Virgin Islands.
(k) RESOURCES.—The Task Force shall
carry out its duties by utilizing existing fa-
cilities, services, and staff of the House of
Representatives and the Senate.
(l) TERMINATION.—The Task Force shall
terminate upon issuing the report required
under subsection (g).
Subtitle E—Redistricting Reform
SEC. 2400. SHORT TITLE; FINDING OF CONSTITU-
TIONAL AUTHORITY.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This subtitle may be
cited as the ‘‘Redistricting Reform Act of
2019’’.
(b) FINDING OF CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHOR-
ITY.—Congress finds that it has the author-
ity to establish the terms and conditions
States must follow in carrying out congres-
sional redistricting after an apportionment
of Members of the House of Representatives
because—
(1) the authority granted to Congress
under article I, section 4 of the Constitution
of the United States gives Congress the
power to enact laws governing the time,
place, and manner of elections for Members
of the House of Representatives; and
(2) the authority granted to Congress
under section 5 of the fourteenth amendment
to the Constitution gives Congress the power
to enact laws to enforce section 2 of such
amendment, which requires Representatives
to be apportioned among the several States
according to their number.
PART 1—REQUIREMENTS FOR
CONGRESSIONAL REDISTRICTING
SEC. 2401. REQUIRING CONGRESSIONAL REDIS-
TRICTING TO BE CONDUCTED
THROUGH PLAN OF INDEPENDENT
STATE COMMISSION.
(a) USE OF PLAN REQUIRED.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, and ex-
cept as provided in subsection (c), any con-
gressional redistricting conducted by a State
shall be conducted in accordance with—
(1) the redistricting plan developed and en-
acted into law by the independent redis-
tricting commission established in the
State, in accordance with part 2; or
(2) if a plan developed by such commission
is not enacted into law, the redistricting
plan developed and enacted into law by a 3-
judge court, in accordance with section 2421.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 22(c)
of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to provide for
the fifteenth and subsequent decennial cen-
suses and to provide for an apportionment of
Representatives in Congress’’, approved June
18, 1929 (2 U.S.C. 2a(c)), is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘in the manner provided by the law
thereof’’ and inserting: ‘‘in the manner pro-
vided by the Redistricting Reform Act of
2019’’.
(c) SPECIAL RULE FOR EXISTING COMMIS-
SIONS.—Subsection (a) does not apply to any
State in which, under law in effect continu-
ously on and after the date of the enactment
of this Act, congressional redistricting is
carried out in accordance with a plan devel-
oped and approved by an independent redis-
tricting commission which is in compliance
with each of the following requirements:
(1) PUBLICLY AVAILABLE APPLICATION PROC-
ESS.—Membership on the commission is open
to citizens of the State through a publicly
available application process.
(2) DISQUALIFICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT
SERVICE AND POLITICAL APPOINTMENT.—Indi-
viduals who, for a covered period of time as
established by the State, hold or have held
public office, individuals who are or have
been candidates for elected public office, and
individuals who serve or have served as an
officer, employee, or paid consultant of a
campaign committee of a candidate for pub-
lic office are disqualified from serving on the
commission.
(3) SCREENING FOR CONFLICTS.—Individuals
who apply to serve on the commission are
screened through a process that excludes
persons with conflicts of interest from the
pool of potential commissioners.
(4) MULTI-PARTISAN COMPOSITION.—Member-
ship on the commission represents those who
are affiliated with the two political parties
whose candidates received the most votes in
the most recent Statewide election for Fed-
eral office held in the State, as well as those
who are unaffiliated with any party or who
are affiliated with political parties other
than the two political parties whose can-
didates received the most votes in the most
recent Statewide election for Federal office
held in the State.
(5) CRITERIA FOR REDISTRICTING.—Members
of the commission are required to meet cer-
tain criteria in the map drawing process, in-
cluding minimizing the division of commu-
nities of interest and a ban on drawing maps
to favor a political party.
(6) PUBLIC INPUT.—Public hearings are held
and comments from the public are accepted
before a final map is approved.
(7) BROAD-BASED SUPPORT FOR APPROVAL OF
FINAL PLAN.—The approval of the final redis-
tricting plan requires a majority vote of the
members of the commission, including the
support of at least one member of each of the
following:
(A) Members who are affiliated with the
political party whose candidate received the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2434 March 6, 2019
most votes in the most recent Statewide
election for Federal office held in the State.
(B) Members who are affiliated with the
political party whose candidate received the
second most votes in the most recent State-
wide election for Federal office held in the
State.
(C) Members who not affiliated with any
political party or who are affiliated with po-
litical parties other than the political par-
ties described in subparagraphs (A) and (B).
SEC. 2402. BAN ON MID-DECADE REDISTRICTING.
A State that has been redistricted in ac-
cordance with this subtitle and a State de-
scribed in section 2401(c) may not be redis-
tricted again until after the next apportion-
ment of Representatives under section 22(a)
of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to provide for
the fifteenth and subsequent decennial cen-
suses and to provide for an apportionment of
Representatives in Congress’’, approved June
18, 1929 (2 U.S.C. 2a), unless a court requires
the State to conduct such subsequent redis-
tricting to comply with the Constitution of
the United States, the Voting Rights Act of
1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.), the Constitution
of the State, or the terms or conditions of
this subtitle.
PART 2—INDEPENDENT REDISTRICTING
COMMISSIONS
SEC. 2411. INDEPENDENT REDISTRICTING COM-
MISSION.
(a) APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The nonpartisan agency
established or designated by a State under
section 2414(a) shall establish an independent
redistricting commission for the State,
which shall consist of 15 members appointed
by the agency as follows:
(A) Not later than October 1 of a year end-
ing in the numeral zero, the agency shall, at
a public meeting held not earlier than 15
days after notice of the meeting has been
given to the public, first appoint 6 members
as follows:
(i) The agency shall appoint 2 members on
a random basis from the majority category
of the approved selection pool (as described
in section 2412(b)(1)(A)).
(ii) The agency shall appoint 2 members on
a random basis from the minority category
of the approved selection pool (as described
in section 2412(b)(1)(B)).
(iii) The agency shall appoint 2 members
on a random basis from the independent cat-
egory of the approved selection pool (as de-
scribed in section 2412(b)(1)(C)).
(B) Not later than November 15 of a year
ending in the numeral zero, the members ap-
pointed by the agency under subparagraph
(A) shall, at a public meeting held not earlier
than 15 days after notice of the meeting has
been given to the public, then appoint 9
members as follows:
(i) The members shall appoint 3 members
from the majority category of the approved
selection pool (as described in section
2412(b)(1)(A)).
(ii) The members shall appoint 3 members
from the minority category of the approved
selection pool (as described in section
2412(b)(1)(B)).
(iii) The members shall appoint 3 members
from the independent category of the ap-
proved selection pool (as described in section
2412(b)(1)(C)).
(2) RULES FOR APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS
APPOINTED BY FIRST MEMBERS.—
(A) AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF AT LEAST 4 MEM-
BERS.—The appointment of any of the 9
members of the independent redistricting
commission who are appointed by the first
members of the commission pursuant to sub-
paragraph (B) of paragraph (1), as well as the
designation of alternates for such members
pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph
(3) and the appointment of alternates to fill
vacancies pursuant to subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (4), shall require the affirmative
vote of at least 4 of the members appointed
by the nonpartisan agency under subpara-
graph (A) of paragraph (1), including at least
one member from each of the categories re-
ferred to in such subparagraph.
(B) ENSURING DIVERSITY.—In appointing
the 9 members pursuant to subparagraph (B)
of paragraph (1), as well as in designating al-
ternates pursuant to subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (3) and in appointing alternates to
fill vacancies pursuant to subparagraph (B)
of paragraph (4), the first members of the
independent redistricting commission shall
ensure that the membership is representa-
tive of the demographic groups (including ra-
cial, ethnic, economic, and gender) and geo-
graphic regions of the State, and provides ra-
cial, ethnic, and language minorities pro-
tected under the Voting Rights Act of 1965
with a meaningful opportunity to participate
in the development of the State’s redis-
tricting plan.
(3) DESIGNATION OF ALTERNATES TO SERVE IN
CASE OF VACANCIES.—
(A) MEMBERS APPOINTED BY AGENCY.—At
the time the agency appoints the members of
the independent redistricting commission
under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) from
each of the categories referred to in such
subparagraph, the agency shall, on a random
basis, designate 2 other individuals from
such category to serve as alternate members
who may be appointed to fill vacancies in the
commission in accordance with paragraph
(4).
(B) MEMBERS APPOINTED BY FIRST MEM-
BERS.—At the time the members appointed
by the agency appoint the other members of
the independent redistricting commission
under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) from
each of the categories referred to in such
subparagraph, the members shall, in accord-
ance with the special rules described in para-
graph (2), designate 2 other individuals from
such category to serve as alternate members
who may be appointed to fill vacancies in the
commission in accordance with paragraph
(4).
(4) APPOINTMENT OF ALTERNATES TO SERVE
IN CASE OF VACANCIES.—
(A) MEMBERS APPOINTED BY AGENCY.—If a
vacancy occurs in the commission with re-
spect to a member who was appointed by the
nonpartisan agency under subparagraph (A)
of paragraph (1) from one of the categories
referred to in such subparagraph, the agency
shall fill the vacancy by appointing, on a
random basis, one of the 2 alternates from
such category who was designated under sub-
paragraph (A) of paragraph (3). At the time
the agency appoints an alternate to fill a va-
cancy under the previous sentence, the agen-
cy shall designate, on a random basis, an-
other individual from the same category to
serve as an alternate member, in accordance
with subparagraph (A) of paragraph (3).
(B) MEMBERS APPOINTED BY FIRST MEM-
BERS.—If a vacancy occurs in the commis-
sion with respect to a member who was ap-
pointed by the first members of the commis-
sion under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1)
from one of the categories referred to in such
subparagraph, the first members shall, in ac-
cordance with the special rules described in
paragraph (2), fill the vacancy by appointing
one of the 2 alternates from such category
who was designated under subparagraph (B)
of paragraph (3). At the time the first mem-
bers appoint an alternate to fill a vacancy
under the previous sentence, the first mem-
bers shall, in accordance with the special
rules described in paragraph (2), designate
another individual from the same category
to serve as an alternate member, in accord-
ance with subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3).
(5) REMOVAL.—A member of the inde-
pendent redistricting commission may be re-
moved by a majority vote of the remaining
members of the commission if it is shown by
a preponderance of the evidence that the
member is not eligible to serve on the com-
mission under section 2412(a).
(b) PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCTING COMMIS-
SION BUSINESS.—
(1) CHAIR.—Members of an independent re-
districting commission established under
this section shall select by majority vote one
member who was appointed from the inde-
pendent category of the approved selection
pool described in section 2412(b)(1)(C) to
serve as chair of the commission. The com-
mission may not take any action to develop
a redistricting plan for the State under sec-
tion 2413 until the appointment of the com-
mission’s chair.
(2) REQUIRING MAJORITY APPROVAL FOR AC-
TIONS.—The independent redistricting com-
mission of a State may not publish and dis-
seminate any draft or final redistricting
plan, or take any other action, without the
approval of at least—
(A) a majority of the whole membership of
the commission; and
(B) at least one member of the commission
appointed from each of the categories of the
approved selection pool described in section
2412(b)(1).
(3) QUORUM.—A majority of the members of
the commission shall constitute a quorum.
(c) STAFF; CONTRACTORS.—
(1) STAFF.—Under a public application
process in which all application materials
are available for public inspection, the inde-
pendent redistricting commission of a State
shall appoint and set the pay of technical ex-
perts, legal counsel, consultants, and such
other staff as it considers appropriate, sub-
ject to State law.
(2) CONTRACTORS.—The independent redis-
tricting commission of a State may enter
into such contracts with vendors as it con-
siders appropriate, subject to State law, ex-
cept that any such contract shall be valid
only if approved by the vote of a majority of
the members of the commission, including at
least one member appointed from each of the
categories of the approved selection pool de-
scribed in section 2412(b)(1).
(3) REPORTS ON EXPENDITURES FOR POLIT-
ICAL ACTIVITY.—
(A) REPORT BY APPLICANTS.—Each indi-
vidual who applies for a position as an em-
ployee of the independent redistricting com-
mission and each vendor who applies for a
contract with the commission shall, at the
time of applying, file with the commission a
report summarizing—
(i) any expenditure for political activity
made by such individual or vendor during
the 10 most recent calendar years; and
(ii) any income received by such individual
or vendor during the 10 most recent calendar
years which is attributable to an expenditure
for political activity.
(B) ANNUAL REPORTS BY EMPLOYEES AND
VENDORS.—Each person who is an employee
or vendor of the independent redistricting
commission shall, not later than one year
after the person is appointed as an employee
or enters into a contract as a vendor (as the
case may be) and annually thereafter for
each year during which the person serves as
an employee or a vendor, file with the com-
mission a report summarizing the expendi-
tures and income described in subparagraph
(A) during the 10 most recent calendar years.
(C) EXPENDITURE FOR POLITICAL ACTIVITY
DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the term ‘‘ex-
penditure for political activity’’ means a dis-
bursement for any of the following:
(i) An independent expenditure, as defined
in section 301(17) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101(17)).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2435
March 6, 2019
(ii) An electioneering communication, as
defined in section 304(f)(3) of such Act (52
U.S.C. 30104(f)(3)) or any other public com-
munication, as defined in section 301(22) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 30101(22)) that would be
an electioneering communication if it were a
broadcast, cable, or satellite communica-
tion.
(iii) Any dues or other payments to trade
associations or organizations described in
section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 and exempt from tax under section
501(a) of such Code that are, or could reason-
ably be anticipated to be, used or transferred
to another association or organization for a
use described in paragraphs (1), (2), or (4) of
section 501(c) of such Code.
(4) GOAL OF IMPARTIALITY.—The commis-
sion shall take such steps as it considers ap-
propriate to ensure that any staff appointed
under this subsection, and any vendor with
whom the commission enters into a contract
under this subsection, will work in an impar-
tial manner, and may require any person
who applies for an appointment to a staff po-
sition or for a vendor’s contract with the
commission to provide information on the
person’s history of political activity beyond
the information on the person’s expenditures
for political activity provided in the reports
required under paragraph (3) (including dona-
tions to candidates, political committees,
and political parties) as a condition of the
appointment or the contract.
(5) DISQUALIFICATION; WAIVER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The independent redis-
tricting commission may not appoint an in-
dividual as an employee, and may not enter
into a contract with a vendor, if the indi-
vidual or vendor meets any of the criteria for
the disqualification of an individual from
serving as a member of the commission
which are set forth in section 2412(a)(2).
(B) WAIVER.—The commission may by
unanimous vote of its members waive the ap-
plication of subparagraph (A) to an indi-
vidual or a vendor after receiving and re-
viewing the report filed by the individual or
vendor under paragraph (3).
(d) TERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The independent redis-
tricting commission of a State shall termi-
nate on the earlier of—
(A) June 14 of the next year ending in the
numeral zero; or
(B) the day on which the nonpartisan agen-
cy established or designated by a State
under section 2414(a) has, in accordance with
section 2412(b)(1), submitted a selection pool
to the Select Committee on Redistricting for
the State established under section 2414(b).
(2) PRESERVATION OF RECORDS.—The State
shall ensure that the records of the inde-
pendent redistricting commission are re-
tained in the appropriate State archive in
such manner as may be necessary to enable
the State to respond to any civil action
brought with respect to congressional redis-
tricting in the State.
SEC. 2412. ESTABLISHMENT OF SELECTION POOL
OF INDIVIDUALS ELIGIBLE TO
SERVE AS MEMBERS OF COMMIS-
SION.
(a) CRITERIA FOR ELIGIBILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An individual is eligible
to serve as a member of an independent re-
districting commission if the individual
meets each of the following criteria:
(A) As of the date of appointment, the indi-
vidual is registered to vote in elections for
Federal office held in the State.
(B) During the 3-year period ending on the
date of the individual’s appointment, the in-
dividual has been continuously registered to
vote with the same political party, or has
not been registered to vote with any polit-
ical party.
(C) The individual submits to the non-
partisan agency established or designated by
a State under section 2413, at such time and
in such form as the agency may require, an
application for inclusion in the selection
pool under this section, and includes with
the application a written statement, with an
attestation under penalty of perjury, con-
taining the following information and assur-
ances:
(i) The full current name and any former
names of, and the contact information for,
the individual, including an electronic mail
address, the address of the individual’s resi-
dence, mailing address, and telephone num-
bers.
(ii) The individual’s race, ethnicity, gen-
der, age, date of birth, and household income
for the most recent taxable year.
(iii) The political party with which the in-
dividual is affiliated, if any.
(iv) The reason or reasons the individual
desires to serve on the independent redis-
tricting commission, the individual’s quali-
fications, and information relevant to the
ability of the individual to be fair and impar-
tial, including, but not limited to—
(I) any involvement with, or financial sup-
port of, professional, social, political, reli-
gious, or community organizations or
causes;
(II) the individual’s employment and edu-
cational history.
(v) An assurance that the individual shall
commit to carrying out the individual’s du-
ties under this subtitle in an honest, inde-
pendent, and impartial fashion, and to up-
holding public confidence in the integrity of
the redistricting process.
(vi) An assurance that, during the covered
periods described in paragraph (3), the indi-
vidual has not taken and will not take any
action which would disqualify the individual
from serving as a member of the commission
under paragraph (2).
(2) DISQUALIFICATIONS.—An individual is
not eligible to serve as a member of the com-
mission if any of the following applies during
any of the covered periods described in para-
graph (3):
(A) The individual or (in the case of the
covered periods described in subparagraphs
(A) and (B) of paragraph (3)) an immediate
family member of the individual holds public
office or is a candidate for election for public
office.
(B) The individual or (in the case of the
covered periods described in subparagraphs
(A) and (B) of paragraph (3)) an immediate
family member of the individual serves as an
officer of a political party or as an officer,
employee, or paid consultant of a campaign
committee of a candidate for public office or
of any political action committee (as deter-
mined in accordance with the law of the
State).
(C) The individual or (in the case of the
covered periods described in subparagraphs
(A) and (B) of paragraph (3)) an immediate
family member of the individual holds a po-
sition as a registered lobbyist under the Lob-
bying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et
seq.) or an equivalent State or local law.
(D) The individual or (in the case of the
covered periods described in subparagraphs
(A) and (B) of paragraph (3)) an immediate
family member of the individual is an em-
ployee of an elected public official, a con-
tractor with the government of the State, or
a donor to the campaign of any candidate for
public office or to any political action com-
mittee (other than a donor who, during any
of such covered periods, gives an aggregate
amount of $1,000 or less to the campaigns of
all candidates for all public offices and to all
political action committees).
(3) COVERED PERIODS DESCRIBED.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘covered period’’
means, with respect to the appointment of
an individual to the commission, any of the
following:
(A) The 10-year period ending on the date
of the individual’s appointment.
(B) The period beginning on the date of the
individual’s appointment and ending on Au-
gust 14 of the next year ending in the nu-
meral one.
(C) The 10-year period beginning on the day
after the last day of the period described in
subparagraph (B).
(4) IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER DEFINED.—In
this subsection, the term ‘‘immediate family
member’’ means, with respect to an indi-
vidual, a father, stepfather, mother, step-
mother, son, stepson, daughter, step-
daughter, brother, stepbrother, sister, step-
sister, husband, wife, father-in-law, or moth-
er-in-law.
(b) DEVELOPMENT AND SUBMISSION OF SE-
LECTION POOL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than June 15 of
each year ending in the numeral zero, the
nonpartisan agency established or des-
ignated by a State under section 2414(a) shall
develop and submit to the Select Committee
on Redistricting for the State established
under section 2414(b) a selection pool of 36 in-
dividuals who are eligible to serve as mem-
bers of the independent redistricting com-
mission of the State under this subtitle, con-
sisting of individuals in the following cat-
egories:
(A) A majority category, consisting of 12
individuals who are affiliated with the polit-
ical party whose candidate received the most
votes in the most recent Statewide election
for Federal office held in the State.
(B) A minority category, consisting of 12
individuals who are affiliated with the polit-
ical party whose candidate received the sec-
ond most votes in the most recent Statewide
election for Federal office held in the State.
(C) An independent category, consisting of
12 individuals who are not affiliated with ei-
ther of the political parties described in sub-
paragraph (A) or subparagraph (B).
(2) FACTORS TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN DEVEL-
OPING POOL.—In selecting individuals for the
selection pool under this subsection, the
nonpartisan agency shall—
(A) ensure that the pool is representative
of the demographic groups (including racial,
ethnic, economic, and gender) and geo-
graphic regions of the State, and includes ap-
plicants who would allow racial, ethnic, and
language minorities protected under the
Voting Rights Act of 1965 a meaningful op-
portunity to participate in the development
of the State’s redistricting plan; and
(B) take into consideration the analytical
skills of the individuals selected in relevant
fields (including mapping, data management,
law, community outreach, demography, and
the geography of the State) and their ability
to work on an impartial basis.
(3) INTERVIEWS OF APPLICANTS.—To assist
the nonpartisan agency in developing the se-
lection pool under this subsection, the non-
partisan agency shall conduct interviews of
applicants under oath. If an individual is in-
cluded in a selection pool developed under
this section, all of the interviews of the indi-
vidual shall be transcribed and the tran-
scriptions made available on the nonpartisan
agency’s website contemporaneously with re-
lease of the report under paragraph (6).
(4) DETERMINATION OF POLITICAL PARTY AF-
FILIATION OF INDIVIDUALS IN SELECTION
POOL.—For purposes of this section, an indi-
vidual shall be considered to be affiliated
with a political party only if the nonpartisan
agency is able to verify (to the greatest ex-
tent possible) the information the individual
provides in the application submitted under
subsection (a)(1)(D), including by considering
additional information provided by other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2436 March 6, 2019
persons with knowledge of the individual’s
history of political activity.
(5) ENCOURAGING RESIDENTS TO APPLY FOR
INCLUSION IN POOL.—The nonpartisan agency
shall take such steps as may be necessary to
ensure that residents of the State across var-
ious geographic regions and demographic
groups are aware of the opportunity to serve
on the independent redistricting commis-
sion, including publicizing the role of the
panel and using newspapers, broadcast
media, and online sources, including ethnic
media, to encourage individuals to apply for
inclusion in the selection pool developed
under this subsection.
(6) REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT OF SELECTION
POOL.—At the time the nonpartisan agency
submits the selection pool to the Select
Committee on Redistricting under paragraph
(1), it shall publish and post on the agency’s
public website a report describing the proc-
ess by which the pool was developed, and
shall include in the report a description of
how the individuals in the pool meet the eli-
gibility criteria of subsection (a) and of how
the pool reflects the factors the agency is re-
quired to take into consideration under para-
graph (2).
(7) PUBLIC COMMENT ON SELECTION POOL.—
During the 14-day period which begins on the
date the nonpartisan agency publishes the
report under paragraph (6), the agency shall
accept comments from the public on the in-
dividuals included in the selection pool. The
agency shall post all such comments contem-
poraneously on the nonpartisan agency’s
website and shall transmit them to the Se-
lect Committee on Redistricting imme-
diately upon the expiration of such period.
(8) ACTION BY SELECT COMMITTEE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not earlier than 15 days
and not later than 21 days after receiving the
selection pool from the nonpartisan agency
under paragraph (1), the Select Committee
on Redistricting shall—
(i) approve the pool as submitted by the
nonpartisan agency, in which case the pool
shall be considered the approved selection
pool for purposes of section 2411(a)(1); or
(ii) reject the pool, in which case the non-
partisan agency shall develop and submit a
replacement selection pool in accordance
with subsection (c).
(B) INACTION DEEMED REJECTION.—If the Se-
lect Committee on Redistricting fails to ap-
prove or reject the pool within the deadline
set forth in subparagraph (A), the Select
Committee shall be deemed to have rejected
the pool for purposes of such subparagraph.
(c) DEVELOPMENT OF REPLACEMENT SELEC-
TION POOL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Select Committee
on Redistricting rejects the selection pool
submitted by the nonpartisan agency under
subsection (b), not later than 14 days after
the rejection, the nonpartisan agency shall
develop and submit to the Select Committee
a replacement selection pool, under the same
terms and conditions that applied to the de-
velopment and submission of the selection
pool under paragraphs (1) through (7) of sub-
section (b). The replacement pool submitted
under this paragraph may include individ-
uals who were included in the rejected selec-
tion pool submitted under subsection (b), so
long as at least one of the individuals in the
replacement pool was not included in such
rejected pool.
(2) ACTION BY SELECT COMMITTEE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 21 days
after receiving the replacement selection
pool from the nonpartisan agency under
paragraph (1), the Select Committee on Re-
districting shall—
(i) approve the pool as submitted by the
nonpartisan agency, in which case the pool
shall be considered the approved selection
pool for purposes of section 2411(a)(1); or
(ii) reject the pool, in which case the non-
partisan agency shall develop and submit a
second replacement selection pool in accord-
ance with subsection (d).
(B) INACTION DEEMED REJECTION.—If the Se-
lect Committee on Redistricting fails to ap-
prove or reject the pool within the deadline
set forth in subparagraph (A), the Select
Committee shall be deemed to have rejected
the pool for purposes of such subparagraph.
(d) DEVELOPMENT OF SECOND REPLACEMENT
SELECTION POOL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Select Committee
on Redistricting rejects the replacement se-
lection pool submitted by the nonpartisan
agency under subsection (c), not later than
14 days after the rejection, the nonpartisan
agency shall develop and submit to the Se-
lect Committee a second replacement selec-
tion pool, under the same terms and condi-
tions that applied to the development and
submission of the selection pool under para-
graphs (1) through (7) of subsection (b). The
second replacement selection pool submitted
under this paragraph may include individ-
uals who were included in the rejected selec-
tion pool submitted under subsection (b) or
the rejected replacement selection pool sub-
mitted under subsection (c), so long as at
least one of the individuals in the replace-
ment pool was not included in either such re-
jected pool.
(2) ACTION BY SELECT COMMITTEE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not earlier than 15 days
and not later than 14 days after receiving the
second replacement selection pool from the
nonpartisan agency under paragraph (1), the
Select Committee on Redistricting shall—
(i) approve the pool as submitted by the
nonpartisan agency, in which case the pool
shall be considered the approved selection
pool for purposes of section 2411(a)(1); or
(ii) reject the pool.
(B) INACTION DEEMED REJECTION.—If the Se-
lect Committee on Redistricting fails to ap-
prove or reject the pool within the deadline
set forth in subparagraph (A), the Select
Committee shall be deemed to have rejected
the pool for purposes of such subparagraph.
(C) EFFECT OF REJECTION.—If the Select
Committee on Redistricting rejects the sec-
ond replacement pool from the nonpartisan
agency under paragraph (1), the redistricting
plan for the State shall be developed and en-
acted in accordance with part 3.
SEC. 2413. CRITERIA FOR REDISTRICTING PLAN
BY INDEPENDENT COMMISSION;
PUBLIC NOTICE AND INPUT.
(a) DEVELOPMENT OF REDISTRICTING PLAN.—
(1) CRITERIA.—In developing a redistricting
plan of a State, the independent redistricting
commission of a State shall establish single-
member congressional districts using the fol-
lowing criteria as set forth in the following
order of priority:
(A) Districts shall comply with the United
States Constitution, including the require-
ment that they equalize total population.
(B) Districts shall comply with the Voting
Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.) and
all applicable Federal laws.
(C) Districts shall provide racial, ethnic,
and language minorities with an equal op-
portunity to participate in the political
process and to elect candidates of choice and
shall not dilute or diminish their ability to
elect candidates of choice whether alone or
in coalition with others.
(D) Districts shall respect communities of
interest, neighborhoods, and political sub-
divisions to the extent practicable and after
compliance with the requirements of sub-
paragraphs (A) through (C). A community of
interest is defined as an area with recognized
similarities of interests, including but not
limited to ethnic, racial, economic, social,
cultural, geographic or historic indentities.
The term communities of interest may, in
certain circumstances, include political sub-
divisions such as counties, municipalities, or
school districts, but shall not include com-
mon relationships with political parties or
political candidates.
(2) NO FAVORING OR DISFAVORING OF POLIT-
ICAL PARTIES.—Except as may be required to
meet the criteria described in paragraph (1),
the redistricting plan developed by the inde-
pendent redistricting commission shall not,
when considered on a Statewide basis, un-
duly favor or disfavor any political party.
(3) FACTORS PROHIBITED FROM CONSIDER-
ATION.—In developing the redistricting plan
for the State, the independent redistricting
commission may not take into consideration
any of the following factors, except to the
extent necessary to comply with the criteria
described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of
paragraph (1), paragraph (2), and to enable
the redistricting plan to be measured against
the external metrics described in subsection
(e):
(A) The residence of any Member of the
House of Representatives or candidate.
(B) The political party affiliation or voting
history of the population of a district.
(b) PUBLIC NOTICE AND INPUT.—
(1) USE OF OPEN AND TRANSPARENT PROC-
ESS.—The independent redistricting commis-
sion of a State shall hold each of its meet-
ings in public, shall solicit and take into
consideration comments from the public, in-
cluding proposed maps, throughout the proc-
ess of developing the redistricting plan for
the State, and shall carry out its duties in an
open and transparent manner which provides
for the widest public dissemination reason-
ably possible of its proposed and final redis-
tricting plans.
(2) WEBSITE.—
(A) FEATURES.—The commission shall
maintain a public Internet site which is not
affiliated with or maintained by the office of
any elected official and which includes the
following features:
(i) General information on the commission,
its role in the redistricting process, and its
members, including contact information.
(ii) An updated schedule of commission
hearings and activities, including deadlines
for the submission of comments.
(iii) All draft redistricting plans developed
by the commission under subsection (c) and
the final redistricting plan developed under
subsection (d), including the accompanying
written evaluation under subsection (e).
(iv) All comments received from the public
on the commission’s activities, including
any proposed maps submitted under para-
graph (1).
(v) Live streaming of commission hearings
and an archive of previous meetings, includ-
ing any documents considered at any such
meeting, which the commission shall post
not later than 24 hours after the conclusion
of the meeting.
(vi) Access in an easily useable format to
the demographic and other data used by the
commission to develop and analyze the pro-
posed redistricting plans, together with ac-
cess to any software used to draw maps of
proposed districts and to any reports ana-
lyzing and evaluating any such maps.
(vii) A method by which members of the
public may submit comments and proposed
maps directly to the commission.
(viii) All records of the commission, in-
cluding all communications to or from mem-
bers, employees, and contractors regarding
the work of the commission.
(ix) A list of all contractors receiving pay-
ment from the commission, together with
the annual disclosures submitted by the con-
tractors under section 2411(c)(3).
(x) A list of the names of all individuals
who submitted applications to serve on the
commission, together with the applications
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2437
March 6, 2019
submitted by individuals included in any se-
lection pool, except that the commission
may redact from such applications any fi-
nancial or other personally sensitive infor-
mation.
(B) SEARCHABLE FORMAT.—The commission
shall ensure that all information posted and
maintained on the site under this paragraph,
including information and proposed maps
submitted by the public, shall be maintained
in an easily searchable format.
(C) DEADLINE.—The commission shall en-
sure that the public internet site under this
paragraph is operational (in at least a pre-
liminary format) not later than January 1 of
the year ending in the numeral one.
(3) PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD.—The commis-
sion shall solicit, accept, and consider com-
ments from the public with respect to its du-
ties, activities, and procedures at any time
during the period—
(A) which begins on January 1 of the year
ending in the numeral one; and
(B) which ends 7 days before the date of the
meeting at which the commission shall vote
on approving the final redistricting plan for
enactment into law under subsection (d)(2).
(4) MEETINGS AND HEARINGS IN VARIOUS GEO-
GRAPHIC LOCATIONS.—To the greatest extent
practicable, the commission shall hold its
meetings and hearings in various geographic
regions and locations throughout the State.
(5) MULTIPLE LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR
ALL NOTICES.—The commission shall make
each notice which is required to be posted
and published under this section available in
any language in which the State (or any ju-
risdiction in the State) is required to provide
election materials under section 203 of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965.
(c) DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLICATION OF PRE-
LIMINARY REDISTRICTING PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Prior to developing and
publishing a final redistricting plan under
subsection (d), the independent redistricting
commission of a State shall develop and pub-
lish a preliminary redistricting plan.
(2) MINIMUM PUBLIC HEARINGS AND OPPOR-
TUNITY FOR COMMENT PRIOR TO DEVELOP-
MENT.—
(A) 3 HEARINGS REQUIRED.—Prior to devel-
oping a preliminary redistricting plan under
this subsection, the commission shall hold
not fewer than 3 public hearings at which
members of the public may provide input and
comments regarding the potential contents
of redistricting plans for the State and the
process by which the commission will de-
velop the preliminary plan under this sub-
section.
(B) MINIMUM PERIOD FOR NOTICE PRIOR TO
HEARINGS.—Not fewer than 14 days prior to
the date of each hearing held under this
paragraph, the commission shall post notices
of the hearing in on the website maintained
under subsection (b)(2), and shall provide for
the publication of such notices in newspapers
of general circulation throughout the State.
Each such notice shall specify the date,
time, and location of the hearing.
(C) SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND MAPS BY MEM-
BERS OF THE PUBLIC.—Any member of the
public may submit maps or portions of maps
for consideration by the commission. As pro-
vided under subsection (b)(2)(A), any such
map shall be made publicly available on the
commission’s website and open to comment.
(3) PUBLICATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The commission shall
post the preliminary redistricting plan de-
veloped under this subsection, together with
a report that includes the commission’s re-
sponses to any public comments received
under subsection (b)(3), on the website main-
tained under subsection (b)(2), and shall pro-
vide for the publication of each such plan in
newspapers of general circulation through-
out the State.
(B) MINIMUM PERIOD FOR NOTICE PRIOR TO
PUBLICATION.—Not fewer than 14 days prior
to the date on which the commission posts
and publishes the preliminary plan under
this paragraph, the commission shall notify
the public through the website maintained
under subsection (b)(2), as well as through
publication of notice in newspapers of gen-
eral circulation throughout the State, of the
pending publication of the plan.
(4) MINIMUM POST-PUBLICATION PERIOD FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT.—The commission shall ac-
cept and consider comments from the public
(including through the website maintained
under subsection (b)(2)) with respect to the
preliminary redistricting plan published
under paragraph (3), including proposed revi-
sions to maps, for not fewer than 30 days
after the date on which the plan is published.
(5) POST-PUBLICATION HEARINGS.—
(A) 3 HEARINGS REQUIRED.—After posting
and publishing the preliminary redistricting
plan under paragraph (3), the commission
shall hold not fewer than 3 public hearings in
different geographic areas of the State at
which members of the public may provide
input and comments regarding the prelimi-
nary plan.
(B) MINIMUM PERIOD FOR NOTICE PRIOR TO
HEARINGS.—Not fewer than 14 days prior to
the date of each hearing held under this
paragraph, the commission shall post notices
of the hearing in on the website maintained
under subsection (b)(2), and shall provide for
the publication of such notices in newspapers
of general circulation throughout the State.
Each such notice shall specify the date,
time, and location of the hearing.
(6) PERMITTING MULTIPLE PRELIMINARY
PLANS.—At the option of the commission,
after developing and publishing the prelimi-
nary redistricting plan under this sub-
section, the commission may develop and
publish subsequent preliminary redistricting
plans, so long as the process for the develop-
ment and publication of each such subse-
quent plan meets the requirements set forth
in this subsection for the development and
publication of the first preliminary redis-
tricting plan.
(d) PROCESS FOR ENACTMENT OF FINAL RE-
DISTRICTING PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—After taking into consid-
eration comments from the public on any
preliminary redistricting plan developed and
published under subsection (c), the inde-
pendent redistricting commission of a State
shall develop and publish a final redis-
tricting plan for the State.
(2) MEETING; FINAL VOTE.—Not later than
the deadline specified in subsection (h), the
commission shall hold a public hearing at
which the members of the commission shall
vote on approving the final plan for enact-
ment into law.
(3) PUBLICATION OF PLAN AND ACCOMPANYING
MATERIALS.—Not fewer than 14 days before
the date of the meeting under paragraph (2),
the commission shall provide the following
information to the public through the
website maintained under subsection (b)(2),
as well as through newspapers of general cir-
culation throughout the State:
(A) The final redistricting plan, including
all relevant maps.
(B) A report by the commission to accom-
pany the plan which provides the back-
ground for the plan and the commission’s
reasons for selecting the plan as the final re-
districting plan, including responses to the
public comments received on any prelimi-
nary redistricting plan developed and pub-
lished under subsection (c).
(C) Any dissenting or additional views with
respect to the plan of individual members of
the commission.
(4) ENACTMENT.—The final redistricting
plan developed and published under this sub-
section shall be deemed to be enacted into
law if—
(A) the plan is approved by a majority of
the whole membership of the commission;
and
(B) at least one member of the commission
appointed from each of the categories of the
approved selection pool described in section
2412(b)(1) approves the plan.
(e) WRITTEN EVALUATION OF PLAN AGAINST
EXTERNAL METRICS.—The independent redis-
tricting commission shall include with each
redistricting plan developed and published
under this section a written evaluation that
measures each such plan against external
metrics which cover the criteria set forth in
paragraph (1) of subsection (a), including the
impact of the plan on the ability of commu-
nities of color to elect candidates of choice,
measures of partisan fairness using multiple
accepted methodologies, and the degree to
which the plan preserves or divides commu-
nities of interest.
(f) TIMING.—The independent redistricting
commission of a State may begin its work on
the redistricting plan of the State upon re-
ceipt of relevant population information
from the Bureau of the Census, and shall ap-
prove a final redistricting plan for the State
in each year ending in the numeral one not
later than 8 months after the date on which
the State receives the State apportionment
notice or October 1, whichever occurs later.
SEC. 2414. ESTABLISHMENT OF RELATED ENTI-
TIES.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OR DESIGNATION OF
NONPARTISAN AGENCY OF STATE LEGISLA-
TURE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each State shall establish
a nonpartisan agency in the legislative
branch of the State government to appoint
the members of the independent redis-
tricting commission for the State in accord-
ance with section 2411.
(2) NONPARTISANSHIP DESCRIBED.—For pur-
poses of this subsection, an agency shall be
considered to be nonpartisan if under law the
agency—
(A) is required to provide services on a
nonpartisan basis;
(B) is required to maintain impartiality;
and
(C) is prohibited from advocating for the
adoption or rejection of any legislative pro-
posal.
(3) TRAINING OF MEMBERS APPOINTED TO
COMMISSION.—Not later than January 15 of a
year ending in the numeral one, the non-
partisan agency established or designated
under this subsection shall provide the mem-
bers of the independent redistricting com-
mission with initial training on their obliga-
tions as members of the commission, includ-
ing obligations under the Voting Rights Act
of 1965 and other applicable laws.
(4) REGULATIONS.—The nonpartisan agency
established or designated under this sub-
section shall adopt and publish regulations,
after notice and opportunity for comment,
establishing the procedures that the agency
will follow in fulfilling its duties under this
subtitle, including the procedures to be used
in vetting the qualifications and political af-
filiation of applicants and in creating the se-
lection pools, the randomized process to be
used in selecting the initial members of the
independent redistricting commission, and
the rules that the agency will apply to en-
sure that the agency carries out its duties
under this subtitle in a maximally trans-
parent, publicly accessible, and impartial
manner.
(5) DESIGNATION OF EXISTING AGENCY.—At
its option, a State may designate an existing
agency in the legislative branch of its gov-
ernment to appoint the members of the inde-
pendent redistricting commission plan for
the State under this subtitle, so long as the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2438 March 6, 2019
agency meets the requirements for non-
partisanship under this subsection.
(6) TERMINATION OF AGENCY SPECIFICALLY
ESTABLISHED FOR REDISTRICTING.—If a State
does not designate an existing agency under
paragraph (5) but instead establishes a new
agency to serve as the nonpartisan agency
under this section, the new agency shall ter-
minate upon the enactment into law of the
redistricting plan for the State.
(7) PRESERVATION OF RECORDS.—The State
shall ensure that the records of the non-
partisan agency are retained in the appro-
priate State archive in such manner as may
be necessary to enable the State to respond
to any civil action brought with respect to
congressional redistricting in the State.
(8) DEADLINE.—The State shall meet the re-
quirements of this subsection not later than
each October 15 of a year ending in the nu-
meral nine.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF SELECT COMMITTEE
ON REDISTRICTING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each State shall appoint a
Select Committee on Redistricting to ap-
prove or disapprove a selection pool devel-
oped by the independent redistricting com-
mission for the State under section 2412.
(2) APPOINTMENT.—The Select Committee
on Redistricting for a State under this sub-
section shall consist of the following mem-
bers:
(A) 1 member of the upper house of the
State legislature, who shall be appointed by
the leader of the party with the greatest
number of seats in the upper house.
(B) 1 member of the upper house of the
State legislature, who shall be appointed by
the leader of the party with the second
greatest number of seats in the upper house.
(C) 1 member of the lower house of the
State legislature, who shall be appointed by
the leader of the party with the greatest
number of seats in the lower house.
(D) 1 member of the lower house of the
State legislature, who shall be appointed by
the leader of the party with the second
greatest number of seats in the lower house.
(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR STATES WITH UNICAM-
ERAL LEGISLATURE.—In the case of a State
with a unicameral legislature, the Select
Committee on Redistricting for the State
under this subsection shall consist of the fol-
lowing members:
(A) 2 members of the State legislature ap-
pointed by the chair of the political party of
the State whose candidate received the high-
est percentage of votes in the most recent
Statewide election for Federal office held in
the State.
(B) 2 members of the State legislature ap-
pointed by the chair of the political party
whose candidate received the second highest
percentage of votes in the most recent State-
wide election for Federal office held in the
State.
(4) DEADLINE.—The State shall meet the re-
quirements of this subsection not later than
each January 15 of a year ending in the nu-
meral zero.
PART 3—ROLE OF COURTS IN DEVELOP-
MENT OF REDISTRICTING PLANS
SEC. 2421. ENACTMENT OF PLAN DEVELOPED BY
3-JUDGE COURT.
(a) DEVELOPMENT OF PLAN.—If any of the
triggering events described in subsection (f)
occur with respect to a State—
(1) not later than December 15 of the year
in which the triggering event occurs, the
United States district court for the applica-
ble venue, acting through a 3-judge Court
convened pursuant to section 2284 of title 28,
United States Code, shall develop and pub-
lish the congressional redistricting plan for
the State; and
(2) the final plan developed and published
by the Court under this section shall be
deemed to be enacted on the date on which
the Court publishes the final plan, as de-
scribed in subsection (d).
(b) APPLICABLE VENUE DESCRIBED.—For
purposes of this section, the ‘‘applicable
venue’’ with respect to a State is the Dis-
trict of Columbia or the judicial district in
which the capital of the State is located, as
selected by the first party to file with the
court sufficient evidence of the occurrence of
a triggering event described in subsection (f).
(c) PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPMENT OF
PLAN.—
(1) CRITERIA.—In developing a redistricting
plan for a State under this section, the Court
shall adhere to the same terms and condi-
tions that applied (or that would have ap-
plied, as the case may be) to the develop-
ment of a plan by the independent redis-
tricting commission of the State under sec-
tion 2413(a).
(2) ACCESS TO INFORMATION AND RECORDS OF
COMMISSION.—The Court shall have access to
any information, data, software, or other
records and material that was used (or that
would have been used, as the case may be) by
the independent redistricting commission of
the State in carrying out its duties under
this subtitle.
(3) HEARING; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.—In de-
veloping a redistricting plan for a State, the
Court shall—
(A) hold one or more evidentiary hearings
at which interested members of the public
may appear and be heard and present testi-
mony, including expert testimony, in accord-
ance with the rules of the Court; and
(B) consider other submissions and com-
ments by the public, including proposals for
redistricting plans to cover the entire State
or any portion of the State.
(4) USE OF SPECIAL MASTER.—To assist in
the development and publication of a redis-
tricting plan for a State under this section,
the Court may appoint a special master to
make recommendations to the Court on pos-
sible plans for the State.
(d) PUBLICATION OF PLAN.—
(1) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INITIAL PLAN.—
Upon completing the development of one or
more initial redistricting plans, the Court
shall make the plans available to the public
at no cost, and shall also make available the
underlying data used by the Court to develop
the plans and a written evaluation of the
plans against external metrics (as described
in section 2413(e)).
(2) PUBLICATION OF FINAL PLAN.—At any
time after the expiration of the 14-day period
which begins on the date the Court makes
the plans available to the public under para-
graph (1), and taking into consideration any
submissions and comments by the public
which are received during such period, the
Court shall develop and publish the final re-
districting plan for the State.
(e) USE OF INTERIM PLAN.—In the event
that the Court is not able to develop and
publish a final redistricting plan for the
State with sufficient time for an upcoming
election to proceed, the Court may develop
and publish an interim redistricting plan
which shall serve as the redistricting plan
for the State until the Court develops and
publishes a final plan in accordance with this
section. Nothing in this subsection may be
construed to limit or otherwise affect the au-
thority or discretion of the Court to develop
and publish the final redistricting plan, in-
cluding but not limited to the discretion to
make any changes the Court deems nec-
essary to an interim redistricting plan.
(f) TRIGGERING EVENTS DESCRIBED.—The
‘‘triggering events’’ described in this sub-
section are as follows:
(1) The failure of the State to establish or
designate a nonpartisan agency of the State
legislature under section 2414(a) prior to the
expiration of the deadline set forth in sec-
tion 2414(a)(5).
(2) The failure of the State to appoint a Se-
lect Committee on Redistricting under sec-
tion 2414(b) prior to the expiration of the
deadline set forth in section 2414(b)(4).
(3) The failure of the Select Committee on
Redistricting to approve any selection pool
under section 2412 prior to the expiration of
the deadline set forth for the approval of the
second replacement selection pool in section
2412(d)(2).
(4) The failure of the independent redis-
tricting commission of the State to approve
a final redistricting plan for the State prior
to the expiration of the deadline set forth in
section 2413(f).
SEC. 2422. SPECIAL RULE FOR REDISTRICTING
CONDUCTED UNDER ORDER OF FED-
ERAL COURT.
If a Federal court requires a State to con-
duct redistricting subsequent to an appor-
tionment of Representatives in the State in
order to comply with the Constitution or to
enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, sec-
tion 2413 shall apply with respect to the re-
districting, except that the court may revise
any of the deadlines set forth in such section
if the court determines that a revision is ap-
propriate in order to provide for a timely en-
actment of a new redistricting plan for the
State.
PART 4—ADMINISTRATIVE AND
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 2431. PAYMENTS TO STATES FOR CARRYING
OUT REDISTRICTING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF PAYMENTS.—Subject
to subsection (d), not later than 30 days after
a State receives a State apportionment no-
tice, the Election Assistance Commission
shall, subject to the availability of appro-
priations provided pursuant to subsection
(e), make a payment to the State in an
amount equal to the product of—
(1) the number of Representatives to which
the State is entitled, as provided under the
notice; and
(2) $150,000.
(b) USE OF FUNDS.—A State shall use the
payment made under this section to estab-
lish and operate the State’s independent re-
districting commission, to implement the
State redistricting plan, and to otherwise
carry out congressional redistricting in the
State.
(c) NO PAYMENT TO STATES WITH SINGLE
MEMBER.—The Election Assistance Commis-
sion shall not make a payment under this
section to any State which is not entitled to
more than one Representative under its
State apportionment notice.
(d) REQUIRING SUBMISSION OF SELECTION
POOL AS CONDITION OF PAYMENT.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Election Assistance Com-
mission may not make a payment to a State
under this section until the State certifies to
the Commission that the nonpartisan agency
established or designated by a State under
section 2414(a) has, in accordance with sec-
tion 2412(b)(1), submitted a selection pool to
the Select Committee on Redistricting for
the State established under section 2414(b).
(2) EXCEPTION FOR STATES WITH EXISTING
COMMISSIONS.—In the case of a State which,
pursuant to section 2401(c), is exempt from
the requirements of section 2401(a), the Com-
mission may not make a payment to the
State under this section until the State cer-
tifies to the Commission that its redis-
tricting commission meets the requirements
of section 2401(c).
(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary for payments
under this section.
SEC. 2432. CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
(a) CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2439
March 6, 2019
(1) ACTIONS BY ATTORNEY GENERAL.—The
Attorney General may bring a civil action in
an appropriate district court for such relief
as may be appropriate to carry out this sub-
title.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF PRIVATE RIGHT OF AC-
TION.—Any citizen of a State who is ag-
grieved by the failure of the State to meet
the requirements of this subtitle may bring
a civil action in the United States district
court for the applicable venue for such relief
as may be appropriate to remedy the failure.
For purposes of this section, the ‘‘applicable
venue’’ is the District of Columbia or the ju-
dicial district in which the capital of the
State is located, as selected by the person
who brings the civil action.
(b) EXPEDITED CONSIDERATION.—In any ac-
tion brought forth under this section, the
following rules shall apply:
(1) The action shall be filed in the district
court of the United States for the District of
Columbia or for the judicial district in which
the capital of the State is located, as se-
lected by the person bringing the action.
(2) The action shall be heard by a 3-judge
court convened pursuant to section 2284 of
title 28, United States Code.
(3) The 3-judge court shall consolidate ac-
tions brought for relief under subsection
(b)(1) with respect to the same State redis-
tricting plan.
(4) A copy of the complaint shall be deliv-
ered promptly to the Clerk of the House of
Representatives and the Secretary of the
Senate.
(5) A final decision in the action shall be
reviewable only by appeal directly to the Su-
preme Court of the United States. Such ap-
peal shall be taken by the filing of a notice
of appeal within 10 days, and the filing of a
jurisdictional statement within 30 days, of
the entry of the final decision.
(6) It shall be the duty of the district court
and the Supreme Court of the United States
to advance on the docket and to expedite to
the greatest possible extent the disposition
of the action and appeal.
(c) ATTORNEY’S FEES.—In a civil action
under this section, the court may allow the
prevailing party (other than the United
States) reasonable attorney fees, including
litigation expenses, and costs.
(d) RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.—
(1) RIGHTS AND REMEDIES ADDITIONAL TO
OTHER RIGHTS AND REMEDIES.—The rights and
remedies established by this section are in
addition to all other rights and remedies pro-
vided by law, and neither the rights and rem-
edies established by this section nor any
other provision of this subtitle shall super-
sede, restrict, or limit the application of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et
seq.).
(2) VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 1965.—Nothing in
this subtitle authorizes or requires conduct
that is prohibited by the Voting Rights Act
of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.).
SEC. 2433. STATE APPORTIONMENT NOTICE DE-
FINED.
In this subtitle, the ‘‘State apportionment
notice’’ means, with respect to a State, the
notice sent to the State from the Clerk of
the House of Representatives under section
22(b) of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to provide
for the fifteenth and subsequent decennial
censuses and to provide for an apportion-
ment of Representatives in Congress’’, ap-
proved June 18, 1929 (2 U.S.C. 2a), of the num-
ber of Representatives to which the State is
entitled.
SEC. 2434. NO EFFECT ON ELECTIONS FOR STATE
AND LOCAL OFFICE.
Nothing in this subtitle or in any amend-
ment made by this subtitle may be construed
to affect the manner in which a State carries
out elections for State or local office, includ-
ing the process by which a State establishes
the districts used in such elections.
SEC. 2435. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This subtitle and the amendments made by
this subtitle shall apply with respect to re-
districting carried out pursuant to the de-
cennial census conducted during 2020 or any
succeeding decennial census.
Subtitle F—Saving Eligible Voters From
Voter Purging
SEC. 2501. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Stop
Automatically Voiding Eligible Voters Off
Their Enlisted Rolls in States Act’’ or the
‘‘Save Voters Act’’.
SEC. 2502. CONDITIONS FOR REMOVAL OF VOT-
ERS FROM LIST OF REGISTERED
VOTERS.
(a) CONDITIONS DESCRIBED.—The National
Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C.
20501 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 8 the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 8A. CONDITIONS FOR REMOVAL OF VOTERS
FROM OFFICIAL LIST OF REG-
ISTERED VOTERS.
‘‘(a) VERIFICATION ON BASIS OF OBJECTIVE
AND RELIABLE EVIDENCE OF INELIGIBILITY.—
‘‘(1) REQUIRING VERIFICATION.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of this Act, a
State may not remove the name of any reg-
istrant from the official list of voters eligi-
ble to vote in elections for Federal office in
the State unless the State verifies, on the
basis of objective and reliable evidence, that
the registrant is ineligible to vote in such
elections.
‘‘(2) FACTORS NOT CONSIDERED AS OBJECTIVE
AND RELIABLE EVIDENCE OF INELIGIBILITY.—
For purposes of paragraph (1), the following
factors, or any combination thereof, shall
not be treated as objective and reliable evi-
dence of a registrant’s ineligibility to vote:
‘‘(A) The failure of the registrant to vote
in any election.
‘‘(B) The failure of the registrant to re-
spond to any notice sent under section 8(d),
unless the notice has been returned as un-
deliverable.
‘‘(C) The failure of the registrant to take
any other action with respect to voting in
any election or with respect to the reg-
istrant’s status as a registrant.
‘‘(b) NOTICE AFTER REMOVAL.—
‘‘(1) NOTICE TO INDIVIDUAL REMOVED.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 48 hours
after a State removes the name of a reg-
istrant from the official list of eligible vot-
ers for any reason (other than the death of
the registrant), the State shall send notice of
the removal to the former registrant, and
shall include in the notice the grounds for
the removal and information on how the
former registrant may contest the removal
or be reinstated, including a telephone num-
ber for the appropriate election official.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—Subparagraph (A) does
not apply in the case of a registrant—
‘‘(i) who sends written confirmation to the
State that the registrant is no longer eligi-
ble to vote in the registrar’s jurisdiction in
which the registrant was registered; or
‘‘(ii) who is removed from the official list
of eligible voters by reason of the death of
the registrant.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC NOTICE.—Not later than 48
hours after conducting any general program
to remove the names of ineligible voters
from the official list of eligible voters (as de-
scribed in section 8(a)(4)), the State shall dis-
seminate a public notice through such meth-
ods as may be reasonable to reach the gen-
eral public (including by publishing the no-
tice in a newspaper of wide circulation or
posting the notice on the websites of the ap-
propriate election officials) that list mainte-
nance is taking place and that registrants
should check their registration status to en-
sure no errors or mistakes have been made.
The State shall ensure that the public notice
disseminated under this paragraph is in a
format that is reasonably convenient and ac-
cessible to voters with disabilities, including
voters who have low vision or are blind.’’.
(b) CONDITIONS FOR TRANSMISSION OF NO-
TICES OF REMOVAL.—Section 8(d) of such Act
(52 U.S.C. 20507(d)) is amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(4) A State may not transmit a notice to
a registrant under this subsection unless the
State obtains objective and reliable evidence
(in accordance with the standards for such
evidence which are described in section
8A(a)(2)) that the registrant has changed res-
idence to a place outside the registrar’s ju-
risdiction in which the registrant is reg-
istered.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION ACT OF
1993.—Section 8(a) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
20507(a)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘provide’’
and inserting ‘‘subject to section 8A, pro-
vide’’; and
(B) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘conduct’’
and inserting ‘‘subject to section 8A, con-
duct’’.
(2) HELP AMERICA VOTE ACT OF 2002.—Section
303(a)(4)(A) of the Help America Vote Act of
2002 (52 U.S.C. 21083(a)(4)(A)) is amended by
striking ‘‘, registrants’’ and inserting ‘‘, and
subject to section 8A of such Act, reg-
istrants’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle G—No Effect on Authority of States
to Provide Greater Opportunities for Voting
SEC. 2601. NO EFFECT ON AUTHORITY OF STATES
TO PROVIDE GREATER OPPORTUNI-
TIES FOR VOTING.
Nothing in this title or the amendments
made by this title may be construed to pro-
hibit any State from enacting any law which
provides greater opportunities for individ-
uals to register to vote and to vote in elec-
tions for Federal office than are provided by
this title and the amendments made by this
title.
Subtitle H—Severability
SEC. 2701. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title or amendment
made by this title, or the application of a
provision or amendment to any person or
circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this title and amendments
made by this title, and the application of the
provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
TITLE III—ELECTION SECURITY
Sec. 3000. Short title; sense of Congress.
Subtitle A—Financial Support for Election
Infrastructure
PART 1—VOTING SYSTEM SECURITY
IMPROVEMENT GRANTS
Sec. 3001. Grants for obtaining compliant
paper ballot voting systems and
carrying out voting system se-
curity improvements.
Sec. 3002. Coordination of voting system se-
curity activities with use of re-
quirements payments and elec-
tion administration require-
ments under Help America Vote
Act of 2002.
Sec. 3003. Incorporation of definitions.
PART 2—GRANTS FOR RISK-LIMITING AUDITS
OF RESULTS OF ELECTIONS
Sec. 3011. Grants to States for conducting
risk-limiting audits of results
of elections.
Sec. 3012. GAO analysis of effects of audits.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2440 March 6, 2019
PART 3—ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE
INNOVATION GRANT PROGRAM
Sec. 3021. Election infrastructure innovation
grant program.
Subtitle B—Security Measures
Sec. 3101. Election infrastructure designa-
tion.
Sec. 3102. Timely threat information.
Sec. 3103. Security clearance assistance for
election officials.
Sec. 3104. Security risk and vulnerability as-
sessments.
Sec. 3105. Annual reports.
Subtitle C—Enhancing Protections for
United States Democratic Institutions
Sec. 3201. National strategy to protect
United States democratic insti-
tutions.
Sec. 3202. National Commission to Protect
United States Democratic In-
stitutions.
Subtitle D—Promoting Cybersecurity
Through Improvements in Election Admin-
istration
Sec. 3301. Testing of existing voting systems
to ensure compliance with elec-
tion cybersecurity guidelines
and other guidelines.
Sec. 3302. Treatment of electronic poll books
as part of voting systems.
Sec. 3303. Pre-election reports on voting sys-
tem usage.
Sec. 3304. Streamlining collection of elec-
tion information.
Subtitle E—Preventing Election Hacking
Sec. 3401. Short title.
Sec. 3402. Election Security Bug Bounty
Program.
Sec. 3403. Definitions.
Subtitle F—Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec. 3501. Definitions.
Sec. 3502. Initial report on adequacy of re-
sources available for implemen-
tation.
Subtitle G—Severability
Sec. 3601. Severability.
SEC. 3000. SHORT TITLE; SENSE OF CONGRESS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This title may be cited
as the ‘‘Election Security Act’’.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NEED TO IM-
PROVE ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE SECU-
RITY.—It is the sense of Congress that, in
light of the lessons learned from Russian in-
terference in the 2016 Presidential election,
the Federal Government should intensify its
efforts to improve the security of election
infrastructure in the United States, includ-
ing through the use of individual, durable,
paper ballots marked by the voter by hand.
Subtitle A—Financial Support for Election
Infrastructure
PART 1—VOTING SYSTEM SECURITY
IMPROVEMENT GRANTS
SEC. 3001. GRANTS FOR OBTAINING COMPLIANT
PAPER BALLOT VOTING SYSTEMS
AND CARRYING OUT VOTING SYS-
TEM SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS.
(a) AVAILABILITY OF GRANTS.—Subtitle D of
title II of the Help America Vote Act of 2002
(52 U.S.C. 21001 et seq.), as amended by sec-
tion 1905(a), is amended by adding at the end
the following new part:
‘‘PART 8—GRANTS FOR OBTAINING COM-
PLIANT PAPER BALLOT VOTING SYS-
TEMS AND CARRYING OUT VOTING SYS-
TEM SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS
‘‘SEC. 298. GRANTS FOR OBTAINING COMPLIANT
PAPER BALLOT VOTING SYSTEMS
AND CARRYING OUT VOTING SYS-
TEM SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS.
‘‘(a) AVAILABILITY AND USE OF GRANT.—The
Commission shall make a grant to each eli-
gible State—
‘‘(1) to replace a voting system—
‘‘(A) which does not meet the requirements
which are first imposed on the State pursu-
ant to the amendments made by the Voter
Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act
of 2019 with a voting system which does meet
such requirements, for use in the regularly
scheduled general elections for Federal office
held in November 2020, or
‘‘(B) which does meet such requirements
but which is not in compliance with the
most recent voluntary voting system guide-
lines issued by the Commission prior to the
regularly scheduled general election for Fed-
eral office held in November 2020 with an-
other system which does meet such require-
ments and is in compliance with such guide-
lines; and
‘‘(2) to carry out voting system security
improvements described in section 298A with
respect to the regularly scheduled general
elections for Federal office held in November
2020 and each succeeding election for Federal
office.
‘‘(b) AMOUNT OF GRANT.—The amount of a
grant made to a State under this section
shall be such amount as the Commission de-
termines to be appropriate, except that such
amount may not be less than the product of
$1 and the average of the number of individ-
uals who cast votes in any of the two most
recent regularly scheduled general elections
for Federal office held in the State.
‘‘(c) PRO RATA REDUCTIONS.—If the amount
of funds appropriated for grants under this
part is insufficient to ensure that each State
receives the amount of the grant calculated
under subsection (b), the Commission shall
make such pro rata reductions in such
amounts as may be necessary to ensure that
the entire amount appropriated under this
part is distributed to the States.
‘‘(d) ABILITY OF REPLACEMENT SYSTEMS TO
ADMINISTER RANKED CHOICE ELECTIONS.—To
the greatest extent practicable, an eligible
State which receives a grant to replace a
voting system under this section shall en-
sure that the replacement system is capable
of administering a system of ranked choice
voting under which each voter shall rank the
candidates for the office in the order of the
voter’s preference.
‘‘SEC. 298A. VOTING SYSTEM SECURITY IMPROVE-
MENTS DESCRIBED.
‘‘(a) PERMITTED USES.—A voting system se-
curity improvement described in this section
is any of the following:
‘‘(1) The acquisition of goods and services
from qualified election infrastructure ven-
dors by purchase, lease, or such other ar-
rangements as may be appropriate.
‘‘(2) Cyber and risk mitigation training.
‘‘(3) A security risk and vulnerability as-
sessment of the State’s election infrastruc-
ture which is carried out by a provider of cy-
bersecurity services under a contract entered
into between the chief State election official
and the provider.
‘‘(4) The maintenance of election infra-
structure, including addressing risks and
vulnerabilities which are identified under ei-
ther of the security risk and vulnerability
assessments described in paragraph (3), ex-
cept that none of the funds provided under
this part may be used to renovate or replace
a building or facility which is used primarily
for purposes other than the administration
of elections for public office.
‘‘(5) Providing increased technical support
for any information technology infrastruc-
ture that the chief State election official
deems to be part of the State’s election in-
frastructure or designates as critical to the
operation of the State’s election infrastruc-
ture.
‘‘(6) Enhancing the cybersecurity and oper-
ations of the information technology infra-
structure described in paragraph (4).
‘‘(7) Enhancing the cybersecurity of voter
registration systems.
‘‘(b) QUALIFIED ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE
VENDORS DESCRIBED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this
part, a ‘qualified election infrastructure ven-
dor’ is any person who provides, supports, or
maintains, or who seeks to provide, support,
or maintain, election infrastructure on be-
half of a State, unit of local government, or
election agency (as defined in section 3501 of
the Election Security Act) who meets the
criteria described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) CRITERIA.—The criteria described in
this paragraph are such criteria as the Chair-
man, in coordination with the Secretary of
Homeland Security, shall establish and pub-
lish, and shall include each of the following
requirements:
‘‘(A) The vendor must be owned and con-
trolled by a citizen or permanent resident of
the United States.
‘‘(B) The vendor must disclose to the
Chairman and the Secretary, and to the chief
State election official of any State to which
the vendor provides any goods and services
with funds provided under this part, of any
sourcing outside the United States for parts
of the election infrastructure.
‘‘(C) The vendor agrees to ensure that the
election infrastructure will be developed and
maintained in a manner that is consistent
with the cybersecurity best practices issued
by the Technical Guidelines Development
Committee.
‘‘(D) The vendor agrees to maintain its in-
formation technology infrastructure in a
manner that is consistent with the cyberse-
curity best practices issued by the Technical
Guidelines Development Committee.
‘‘(E) The vendor agrees to meet the re-
quirements of paragraph (3) with respect to
any known or suspected cybersecurity inci-
dents involving any of the goods and services
provided by the vendor pursuant to a grant
under this part.
‘‘(F) The vendor agrees to permit inde-
pendent security testing by the Commission
(in accordance with section 231(a)) and by
the Secretary of the goods and services pro-
vided by the vendor pursuant to a grant
under this part.
‘‘(3) CYBERSECURITY INCIDENT REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A vendor meets the re-
quirements of this paragraph if, upon becom-
ing aware of the possibility that an election
cybersecurity incident has occurred involv-
ing any of the goods and services provided by
the vendor pursuant to a grant under this
part—
‘‘(i) the vendor promptly assesses whether
or not such an incident occurred, and sub-
mits a notification meeting the require-
ments of subparagraph (B) to the Secretary
and the Chairman of the assessment as soon
as practicable (but in no case later than 3
days after the vendor first becomes aware of
the possibility that the incident occurred);
‘‘(ii) if the incident involves goods or serv-
ices provided to an election agency, the ven-
dor submits a notification meeting the re-
quirements of subparagraph (B) to the agen-
cy as soon as practicable (but in no case
later than 3 days after the vendor first be-
comes aware of the possibility that the inci-
dent occurred), and cooperates with the
agency in providing any other necessary no-
tifications relating to the incident; and
‘‘(iii) the vendor provides all necessary up-
dates to any notification submitted under
clause (i) or clause (ii).
‘‘(B) CONTENTS OF NOTIFICATIONS.—Each no-
tification submitted under clause (i) or
clause (ii) of subparagraph (A) shall contain
the following information with respect to
any election cybersecurity incident covered
by the notification:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2441
March 6, 2019
‘‘(i) The date, time, and time zone when
the election cybersecurity incident began, if
known.
‘‘(ii) The date, time, and time zone when
the election cybersecurity incident was de-
tected.
‘‘(iii) The date, time, and duration of the
election cybersecurity incident.
‘‘(iv) The circumstances of the election cy-
bersecurity incident, including the specific
election infrastructure systems believed to
have been accessed and information ac-
quired, if any.
‘‘(v) Any planned and implemented tech-
nical measures to respond to and recover
from the incident.
‘‘(vi) In the case of any notification which
is an update to a prior notification, any addi-
tional material information relating to the
incident, including technical data, as it be-
comes available.
‘‘SEC. 298B. ELIGIBILITY OF STATES.
‘‘A State is eligible to receive a grant
under this part if the State submits to the
Commission, at such time and in such form
as the Commission may require, an applica-
tion containing—
‘‘(1) a description of how the State will use
the grant to carry out the activities author-
ized under this part;
‘‘(2) a certification and assurance that, not
later than 5 years after receiving the grant,
the State will carry out risk-limiting audits
and will carry out voting system security
improvements, as described in section 298A;
and
‘‘(3) such other information and assurances
as the Commission may require.
‘‘SEC. 298C. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
‘‘Not later than 90 days after the end of
each fiscal year, the Commission shall sub-
mit a report to the appropriate congressional
committees, including the Committees on
Homeland Security, House Administration,
and the Judiciary of the House of Represent-
atives and the Committees on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs, the Judici-
ary, and Rules and Administration of the
Senate, on the activities carried out with the
funds provided under this part.
‘‘SEC. 298D. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIA-
TIONS.
‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized
to be appropriated for grants under this
part—
‘‘(1) $1,000,000,000 for fiscal year 2019; and
‘‘(2) $175,000,000 for each of the fiscal years
2020, 2022, 2024, and 2026.
‘‘(b) CONTINUING AVAILABILITY OF
AMOUNTS.—Any amounts appropriated pursu-
ant to the authorization of this section shall
remain available until expended.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act, as amended by section
1905(b), is amended by adding at the end of
the items relating to subtitle D of title II the
following:
‘‘PART 8—GRANTS FOR OBTAINING COMPLIANT
PAPER BALLOT VOTING SYSTEMS AND CAR-
RYING OUT VOTING SYSTEM SECURITY IM-
PROVEMENTS
‘‘Sec. 298. Grants for obtaining compli-
ant paper ballot voting systems
and carrying out voting system
security improvements.
‘‘Sec. 298A. Voting system security im-
provements described.
‘‘Sec. 298B. Eligibility of States.
‘‘Sec. 298C. Reports to Congress.
‘‘Sec. 298D. Authorization of appropria-
tions.
SEC. 3002. COORDINATION OF VOTING SYSTEM
SECURITY ACTIVITIES WITH USE OF
REQUIREMENTS PAYMENTS AND
ELECTION ADMINISTRATION RE-
QUIREMENTS UNDER HELP AMER-
ICA VOTE ACT OF 2002.
(a) DUTIES OF ELECTION ASSISTANCE COM-
MISSION.—Section 202 of the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 20922) is amended
in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by
striking ‘‘by’’ and inserting ‘‘and the secu-
rity of election infrastructure by’’.
(b) MEMBERSHIP OF SECRETARY OF HOME-
LAND SECURITY ON BOARD OF ADVISORS OF
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION.—Section
214(a) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20944(a)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘37 members’’ and inserting
‘‘38 members’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(17) The Secretary of Homeland Security
or the Secretary’s designee.’’.
(c) REPRESENTATIVE OF DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY ON TECHNICAL GUIDE-
LINES DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.—Section
221(c)(1) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20961(c)(1)) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as
subparagraph (F); and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) A representative of the Department of
Homeland Security.’’.
(d) GOALS OF PERIODIC STUDIES OF ELEC-
TION ADMINISTRATION ISSUES; CONSULTATION
WITH SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY.—
Section 241(a) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 20981(a))
is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘the Commission shall’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the Commission, in consultation
with the Secretary of Homeland Security (as
appropriate), shall’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (3);
(3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as para-
graph (5); and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(4) will be secure against attempts to un-
dermine the integrity of election systems by
cyber or other means; and’’.
(e) REQUIREMENTS PAYMENTS.—
(1) USE OF PAYMENTS FOR VOTING SYSTEM
SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS.—Section 251(b) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 21001(b)), as amended by
section 1061(a)(2), is further amended by add-
ing at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(5) PERMITTING USE OF PAYMENTS FOR VOT-
ING SYSTEM SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS.—A
State may use a requirements payment to
carry out any of the following activities:
‘‘(A) Cyber and risk mitigation training.
‘‘(B) Providing increased technical support
for any information technology infrastruc-
ture that the chief State election official
deems to be part of the State’s election in-
frastructure or designates as critical to the
operation of the State’s election infrastruc-
ture.
‘‘(C) Enhancing the cybersecurity and op-
erations of the information technology infra-
structure described in subparagraph (B).
‘‘(D) Enhancing the security of voter reg-
istration databases.’’.
(2) INCORPORATION OF ELECTION INFRASTRUC-
TURE PROTECTION IN STATE PLANS FOR USE OF
PAYMENTS.—Section 254(a)(1) of such Act (52
U.S.C. 21004(a)(1)) is amended by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘, including
the protection of election infrastructure.’’.
(3) COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEE RESPONSIBLE
FOR DEVELOPING STATE PLAN FOR USE OF PAY-
MENTS.—Section 255 of such Act (52 U.S.C.
21005) is amended—
(A) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(B) by inserting after subsection (a) the
following new subsection:
‘‘(b) GEOGRAPHIC REPRESENTATION.—The
members of the committee shall be a rep-
resentative group of individuals from the
State’s counties, cities, towns, and Indian
tribes, and shall represent the needs of rural
as well as urban areas of the State, as the
case may be.’’.
(f) ENSURING PROTECTION OF COMPUTERIZED
STATEWIDE VOTER REGISTRATION LIST.—Sec-
tion 303(a)(3) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
21083(a)(3)) is amended by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘, as well as other
measures to prevent and deter cybersecurity
incidents, as identified by the Commission,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
Technical Guidelines Development Com-
mittee.’’.
SEC. 3003. INCORPORATION OF DEFINITIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 901 of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21141) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 901. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this Act, the following definitions
apply:
‘‘(1) The term ‘cybersecurity incident’ has
the meaning given the term ‘incident’ in sec-
tion 227 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002
(6 U.S.C. 148).
‘‘(2) The term ‘election infrastructure’ has
the meaning given such term in section 3501
of the Election Security Act.
‘‘(3) The term ‘State’ means each of the
several States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, Amer-
ican Samoa, the United States Virgin Is-
lands, and the Commonwealth of the North-
ern Mariana Islands.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act is amended by amend-
ing the item relating to section 901 to read
as follows:
‘‘Sec. 901. Definitions.’’.
PART 2—GRANTS FOR RISK-LIMITING
AUDITS OF RESULTS OF ELECTIONS
SEC. 3011. GRANTS TO STATES FOR CONDUCTING
RISK-LIMITING AUDITS OF RESULTS
OF ELECTIONS.
(a) AVAILABILITY OF GRANTS.—Subtitle D of
title II of the Help America Vote Act of 2002
(52 U.S.C. 21001 et seq.), as amended by sec-
tions 1905(a) and 3001(a), is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new part:
‘‘PART 9—GRANTS FOR CONDUCTING
RISK-LIMITING AUDITS OF RESULTS OF
ELECTIONS
‘‘SEC. 299. GRANTS FOR CONDUCTING RISK-LIM-
ITING AUDITS OF RESULTS OF ELEC-
TIONS.
‘‘(a) AVAILABILITY OF GRANTS.—The Com-
mission shall make a grant to each eligible
State to conduct risk-limiting audits as de-
scribed in subsection (b) with respect to the
regularly scheduled general elections for
Federal office held in November 2020 and
each succeeding election for Federal office.
‘‘(b) RISK-LIMITING AUDITS DESCRIBED.—In
this part, a ‘risk-limiting audit’ is a post-
election process—
‘‘(1) which is conducted in accordance with
rules and procedures established by the chief
State election official of the State which
meet the requirements of subsection (c); and
‘‘(2) under which, if the reported outcome
of the election is incorrect, there is at least
a predetermined percentage chance that the
audit will replace the incorrect outcome
with the correct outcome as determined by a
full, hand-to-eye tabulation of all votes val-
idly cast in that election that ascertains
voter intent manually and directly from
voter-verifiable paper records.
‘‘(c) REQUIREMENTS FOR RULES AND PROCE-
DURES.—The rules and procedures estab-
lished for conducting a risk-limiting audit
shall include the following elements:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2442 March 6, 2019
‘‘(1) Rules for ensuring the security of bal-
lots and documenting that prescribed proce-
dures were followed.
‘‘(2) Rules and procedures for ensuring the
accuracy of ballot manifests produced by
election agencies.
‘‘(3) Rules and procedures for governing the
format of ballot manifests, cast vote records,
and other data involved in the audit.
‘‘(4) Methods to ensure that any cast vote
records used in the audit are those used by
the voting system to tally the election re-
sults sent to the chief State election official
and made public.
‘‘(5) Procedures for the random selection of
ballots to be inspected manually during each
audit.
‘‘(6) Rules for the calculations and other
methods to be used in the audit and to deter-
mine whether and when the audit of an elec-
tion is complete.
‘‘(7) Procedures and requirements for test-
ing any software used to conduct risk-lim-
iting audits.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this part, the fol-
lowing definitions apply:
‘‘(1) The term ‘ballot manifest’ means a
record maintained by each election agency
that meets each of the following require-
ments:
‘‘(A) The record is created without reliance
on any part of the voting system used to tab-
ulate votes.
‘‘(B) The record functions as a sampling
frame for conducting a risk-limiting audit.
‘‘(C) The record contains the following in-
formation with respect to the ballots cast
and counted in the election:
‘‘(i) The total number of ballots cast and
counted by the agency (including under-
votes, overvotes, and other invalid votes).
‘‘(ii) The total number of ballots cast in
each election administered by the agency
(including undervotes, overvotes, and other
invalid votes).
‘‘(iii) A precise description of the manner
in which the ballots are physically stored,
including the total number of physical
groups of ballots, the numbering system for
each group, a unique label for each group,
and the number of ballots in each such
group.
‘‘(2) The term ‘incorrect outcome’ means
an outcome that differs from the outcome
that would be determined by a full tabula-
tion of all votes validly cast in the election,
determining voter intent manually, directly
from voter-verifiable paper records.
‘‘(3) The term ‘outcome’ means the winner
of an election, whether a candidate or a posi-
tion.
‘‘(4) The term ‘reported outcome’ means
the outcome of an election which is deter-
mined according to the canvass and which
will become the official, certified outcome
unless it is revised by an audit, recount, or
other legal process.
‘‘SEC. 299A. ELIGIBILITY OF STATES.
‘‘A State is eligible to receive a grant
under this part if the State submits to the
Commission, at such time and in such form
as the Commission may require, an applica-
tion containing—
‘‘(1) a certification that, not later than 5
years after receiving the grant, the State
will conduct risk-limiting audits of the re-
sults of elections for Federal office held in
the State as described in section 299;
‘‘(2) a certification that, not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
section, the chief State election official of
the State has established or will establish
the rules and procedures for conducting the
audits which meet the requirements of sec-
tion 299(c);
‘‘(3) a certification that the audit shall be
completed not later than the date on which
the State certifies the results of the election;
‘‘(4) a certification that, after completing
the audit, the State shall publish a report on
the results of the audit, together with such
information as necessary to confirm that the
audit was conducted properly;
‘‘(5) a certification that, if a risk-limiting
audit conducted under this part leads to a
full manual tally of an election, State law
requires that the State or election agency
shall use the results of the full manual tally
as the official results of the election; and
‘‘(6) such other information and assurances
as the Commission may require.
‘‘SEC. 299B. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIA-
TIONS.
‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated
for grants under this part $20,000,000 for fis-
cal year 2019, to remain available until ex-
pended.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act, as amended by sections
1905(b) and 3001(b), is further amended by
adding at the end of the items relating to
subtitle D of title II the following:
‘‘PART 9—GRANTS FOR CONDUCTING RISK-
LIMITING AUDITS OF RESULTS OF ELECTIONS
‘‘Sec. 299. Grants for conducting risk-
limiting audits of results of
elections.
‘‘Sec. 299A. Eligibility of States.
‘‘Sec. 299B. Authorization of appropria-
tions.
SEC. 3012. GAO ANALYSIS OF EFFECTS OF AU-
DITS.
(a) ANALYSIS.—Not later than 6 months
after the first election for Federal office is
held after grants are first awarded to States
for conducting risk-limiting audits under
part 9 of subtitle D of title II of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (as added by sec-
tion 3011) for conducting risk-limiting audits
of elections for Federal office, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
conduct an analysis of the extent to which
such audits have improved the administra-
tion of such elections and the security of
election infrastructure in the States receiv-
ing such grants.
(b) REPORT.—The Comptroller General of
the United States shall submit a report on
the analysis conducted under subsection (a)
to the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
PART 3—ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE
INNOVATION GRANT PROGRAM
SEC. 3021. ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE INNOVA-
TION GRANT PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating the second section 319
(relating to EMP and GMD mitigation re-
search and development) as section 320; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
section:
‘‘SEC. 321. ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE INNOVA-
TION GRANT PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary, act-
ing through the Under Secretary for Science
and Technology, in coordination with the
Chairman of the Election Assistance Com-
mission (established pursuant to the Help
America Vote Act of 2002) and in consulta-
tion with the Director of the National
Science Foundation, shall establish a com-
petitive grant program to award grants to el-
igible entities, on a competitive basis, for
purposes of research and development that
are determined to have the potential to sig-
nificantly improve the security (including
cybersecurity), quality, reliability, accu-
racy, accessibility, and affordability of elec-
tion infrastructure.
‘‘(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
90 days after the conclusion of each fiscal
year for which grants are awarded under this
section, the Secretary shall submit to the
Committee on Homeland Security and the
Committee on House Administration of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs and the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration of the Senate a report describ-
ing such grants and analyzing the impact, if
any, of such grants on the security and oper-
ation of election infrastructure.
‘‘(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary $6,250,000 for each of fiscal years
2019 through 2027 for purposes of carrying out
this section.
‘‘(d) ELIGIBLE ENTITY DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘eligible entity’ means—
‘‘(1) an institution of higher education (as
defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)), includ-
ing an institution of higher education that is
a historically Black college or university
(which has the meaning given the term ‘‘part
B institution’’ in section 322 of such Act (20
U.S.C. 1061)) or other minority-serving insti-
tution listed in section 371(a) of such Act (20
U.S.C. 1067q(a));
‘‘(2) an organization described in section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of
such Code; or
‘‘(3) an organization, association, or a for-
profit company, including a small business
concern (as such term is defined under sec-
tion 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
632)), including a small business concern
owned and controlled by socially and eco-
nomically disadvantaged individuals as de-
fined under section 8(d)(3)(C) of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C)).’’.
(b) DEFINITION.—Section 2 of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101) is amend-
ed—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through
(20) as paragraphs (7) through (21), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(6) ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE.—The term
‘election infrastructure’ means storage fa-
cilities, polling places, and centralized vote
tabulation locations used to support the ad-
ministration of elections for public office, as
well as related information and communica-
tions technology, including voter registra-
tion databases, voting machines, electronic
mail and other communications systems (in-
cluding electronic mail and other systems of
vendors who have entered into contracts
with election agencies to support the admin-
istration of elections, manage the election
process, and report and display election re-
sults), and other systems used to manage the
election process and to report and display
election results on behalf of an election
agency.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 is amended by striking
both items relating to section 319 and the
item relating to section 318 and inserting the
following new items:
‘‘Sec. 318. Social media working group.
‘‘Sec. 319. Transparency in research and de-
velopment.
‘‘Sec. 320. EMP and GMD mitigation re-
search and development.
‘‘Sec. 321. Election infrastructure innova-
tion grant program.’’.
Subtitle B—Security Measures
SEC. 3101. ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE DES-
IGNATION.
Subparagraph (J) of section 2001(3) of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
601(3)) is amended by inserting ‘‘, including
election infrastructure’’ before the period at
the end.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2443
March 6, 2019
SEC. 3102. TIMELY THREAT INFORMATION.
Subsection (d) of section 201 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(24) To provide timely threat information
regarding election infrastructure to the chief
State election official of the State with re-
spect to which such information pertains.’’.
SEC. 3103. SECURITY CLEARANCE ASSISTANCE
FOR ELECTION OFFICIALS.
In order to promote the timely sharing of
information on threats to election infra-
structure, the Secretary may—
(1) help expedite a security clearance for
the chief State election official and other ap-
propriate State personnel involved in the ad-
ministration of elections, as designated by
the chief State election official;
(2) sponsor a security clearance for the
chief State election official and other appro-
priate State personnel involved in the ad-
ministration of elections, as designated by
the chief State election official; and
(3) facilitate the issuance of a temporary
clearance to the chief State election official
and other appropriate State personnel in-
volved in the administration of elections, as
designated by the chief State election offi-
cial, if the Secretary determines classified
information to be timely and relevant to the
election infrastructure of the State at issue.
SEC. 3104. SECURITY RISK AND VULNERABILITY
ASSESSMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (6) of section
2209(c) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002
(6 U.S.C. 659(c)) is amended by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding by carrying out a security risk and
vulnerability assessment)’’ after ‘‘risk man-
agement support’’.
(b) PRIORITIZATION TO ENHANCE ELECTION
SECURITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after receiving a written request from a chief
State election official, the Secretary shall,
to the extent practicable, commence a secu-
rity risk and vulnerability assessment (pur-
suant to paragraph (6) of section 2209(c) of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as
amended by subsection (a)) on election infra-
structure in the State at issue.
(2) NOTIFICATION.—If the Secretary, upon
receipt of a request described in paragraph
(1), determines that a security risk and vul-
nerability assessment cannot be commenced
within 90 days, the Secretary shall expedi-
tiously notify the chief State election offi-
cial who submitted such request.
SEC. 3105. ANNUAL REPORTS.
(a) REPORTS ON ASSISTANCE AND ASSESS-
MENTS.—Not later than one year after the
date of the enactment of this Act and annu-
ally thereafter through 2026, the Secretary
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees—
(1) efforts to carry out section 203 during
the prior year, including specific informa-
tion on which States were helped, how many
officials have been helped in each State, how
many security clearances have been spon-
sored in each State, and how many tem-
porary clearances have been issued in each
State; and
(2) efforts to carry out section 205 during
the prior year, including specific informa-
tion on which States were helped, the dates
on which the Secretary received a request
for a security risk and vulnerability assess-
ment pursuant to such section, the dates on
which the Secretary commenced each such
request, and the dates on which the Sec-
retary transmitted a notification in accord-
ance with subsection (b)(2) of such section.
(b) REPORTS ON FOREIGN THREATS.—Not
later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal
year (beginning with fiscal year 2019), the
Secretary and the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the heads of ap-
propriate offices of the Federal government,
shall submit a joint report to the appro-
priate congressional committees on foreign
threats to elections in the United States, in-
cluding physical and cybersecurity threats.
(c) INFORMATION FROM STATES.—For pur-
poses of preparing the reports required under
this section, the Secretary shall solicit and
consider information and comments from
States and election agencies, except that the
provision of such information and comments
by a State or election agency shall be vol-
untary and at the discretion of the State or
agency.
Subtitle C—Enhancing Protections for United
States Democratic Institutions
SEC. 3201. NATIONAL STRATEGY TO PROTECT
UNITED STATES DEMOCRATIC INSTI-
TUTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President, acting through the Secretary,
in consultation with the Chairman, the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Secretary of State, the
Attorney General, the Secretary of Edu-
cation, the Director of National Intelligence,
the Chairman of the Federal Election Com-
mission, and the heads of any other appro-
priate Federal agencies, shall issue a na-
tional strategy to protect against cyber at-
tacks, influence operations, disinformation
campaigns, and other activities that could
undermine the security and integrity of
United States democratic institutions.
(b) CONSIDERATIONS.—The national strat-
egy required under subsection (a) shall in-
clude consideration of the following:
(1) The threat of a foreign state actor, for-
eign terrorist organization (as designated
pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189)), or a do-
mestic actor carrying out a cyber attack, in-
fluence operation, disinformation campaign,
or other activity aimed at undermining the
security and integrity of United States
democratic institutions.
(2) The extent to which United States
democratic institutions are vulnerable to a
cyber attack, influence operation,
disinformation campaign, or other activity
aimed at undermining the security and in-
tegrity of such democratic institutions.
(3) Potential consequences, such as an ero-
sion of public trust or an undermining of the
rule of law, that could result from a success-
ful cyber attack, influence operation,
disinformation campaign, or other activity
aimed at undermining the security and in-
tegrity of United States democratic institu-
tions.
(4) Lessons learned from other Western
governments the institutions of which were
subject to a cyber attack, influence oper-
ation, disinformation campaign, or other ac-
tivity aimed at undermining the security
and integrity of such institutions, as well as
actions that could be taken by the United
States Government to bolster collaboration
with foreign partners to detect, deter, pre-
vent, and counter such activities.
(5) Potential impacts such as an erosion of
public trust in democratic institutions as
could be associated with a successful cyber
breach or other activity negatively-affecting
election infrastructure.
(6) Roles and responsibilities of the Sec-
retary, the Chairman, and the heads of other
Federal entities and non-Federal entities, in-
cluding chief State election officials and rep-
resentatives of multi-state information shar-
ing and analysis center.
(7) Any findings, conclusions, and rec-
ommendations to strengthen protections for
United States democratic institutions that
have been agreed to by a majority of Com-
mission members on the National Commis-
sion to Protect United States Democratic In-
stitutions, authorized pursuant to section
3202.
(c) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—Not later than
90 days after the issuance of the national
strategy required under subsection (a), the
President, acting through the Secretary, in
coordination with the Chairman, shall issue
an implementation plan for Federal efforts
to implement such strategy that includes
the following:
(1) Strategic objectives and corresponding
tasks.
(2) Projected timelines and costs for the
tasks referred to in paragraph (1).
(3) Metrics to evaluate performance of such
tasks.
(d) CLASSIFICATION.—The national strategy
required under subsection (a) shall be in un-
classified form.
(e) CIVIL RIGHTS REVIEW.—Not later than 60
days after the issuance of the national strat-
egy required under subsection (a), and not
later than 60 days after the issuance of the
implementation plan required under sub-
section (c), the Privacy and Civil Liberties
Oversight Board (established under sub-
section 1061 of the Intelligence Reform and
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C.
2000ee)) shall submit a report to Congress on
any potential privacy and civil liberties im-
pacts of such strategy and implementation
plan, respectively.
SEC. 3202. NATIONAL COMMISSION TO PROTECT
UNITED STATES DEMOCRATIC INSTI-
TUTIONS.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
within the legislative branch the National
Commission to Protect United States Demo-
cratic Institutions (hereafter in this section
referred to as the ‘‘Commission’’).
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Commis-
sion is to counter efforts to undermine demo-
cratic institutions within the United States.
(c) COMPOSITION.—
(1) MEMBERSHIP.—The Commission shall be
composed of 10 members appointed for the
life of the Commission as follows:
(A) One member shall be appointed by the
Secretary.
(B) One member shall be appointed by the
Chairman.
(C) 2 members shall be appointed by the
majority leader of the Senate, in consulta-
tion with the Chairman of the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, the Chairman of the Committee on the
Judiciary, and the Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration.
(D) 2 members shall be appointed by the
minority leader of the Senate, in consulta-
tion with the ranking minority member of
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs, the ranking minority
member of the Committee on the Judiciary,
and the ranking minority member of the
Committee on Rules and Administration.
(E) 2 members shall be appointed by the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, in
consultation with the Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, the Chairman
of the Committee on House Administration,
and the Chairman of the Committee on the
Judiciary.
(F) 2 members shall be appointed by the
minority leader of the House of Representa-
tives, in consultation with the ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Home-
land Security, the ranking minority member
of the Committee on the Judiciary, and the
ranking minority member of the Committee
on House Administration.
(2) QUALIFICATIONS.—Individuals shall be
selected for appointment to the Commission
solely on the basis of their professional
qualifications, achievements, public stature,
experience, and expertise in relevant fields,
including, but not limited to cybersecurity,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2444 March 6, 2019
national security, and the Constitution of
the United States.
(3) NO COMPENSATION FOR SERVICE.—Mem-
bers shall not receive compensation for serv-
ice on the Commission, but shall receive
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of
subsistence, in accordance with chapter 57 of
title 5, United States Code.
(4) DEADLINE FOR APPOINTMENT.—All mem-
bers of the Commission shall be appointed no
later than 60 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(5) VACANCIES.—A vacancy on the Commis-
sion shall not affect its powers and shall be
filled in the manner in which the original ap-
pointment was made. The appointment of
the replacement member shall be made not
later than 60 days after the date on which
the vacancy occurs.
(d) CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR.—The Commis-
sion shall elect a Chair and Vice Chair from
among its members.
(e) QUORUM AND MEETINGS.—
(1) QUORUM.—The Commission shall meet
and begin the operations of the Commission
not later than 30 days after the date on
which all members have been appointed or, if
such meeting cannot be mutually agreed
upon, on a date designated by the Speaker of
the House of Representatives and the Presi-
dent pro Tempore of the Senate. Each subse-
quent meeting shall occur upon the call of
the Chair or a majority of its members. A
majority of the members of the Commission
shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser num-
ber may hold meetings.
(2) AUTHORITY OF INDIVIDUALS TO ACT FOR
COMMISSION.—Any member of the Commis-
sion may, if authorized by the Commission,
take any action that the Commission is au-
thorized to take under this section.
(f) POWERS.—
(1) HEARINGS AND EVIDENCE.—The Commis-
sion (or, on the authority of the Commission,
any subcommittee or member thereof) may,
for the purpose of carrying out this section,
hold hearings and sit and act at such times
and places, take such testimony, receive
such evidence, and administer such oaths as
the Commission considers advisable to carry
out its duties.
(2) CONTRACTING.—The Commission may, to
such extent and in such amounts as are pro-
vided in appropriation Acts, enter into con-
tracts to enable the Commission to discharge
its duties under this section.
(g) ASSISTANCE FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES.—
(1) GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION.—
The Administrator of General Services shall
provide to the Commission on a reimburs-
able basis administrative support and other
services for the performance of the Commis-
sion’s functions.
(2) OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.—In
addition to the assistance provided under
paragraph (1), the Department of Homeland
Security, the Election Assistance Commis-
sion, and other appropriate departments and
agencies of the United States shall provide
to the Commission such services, funds, fa-
cilities, and staff as they may determine ad-
visable and as may be authorized by law.
(h) PUBLIC MEETINGS.—Any public meet-
ings of the Commission shall be conducted in
a manner consistent with the protection of
information provided to or developed for or
by the Commission as required by any appli-
cable statute, regulation, or Executive order.
(i) SECURITY CLEARANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The heads of appropriate
departments and agencies of the executive
branch shall cooperate with the Commission
to expeditiously provide Commission mem-
bers and staff with appropriate security
clearances to the extent possible under ap-
plicable procedures and requirements.
(2) PREFERENCES.—In appointing staff, ob-
taining detailees, and entering into con-
tracts for the provision of services for the
Commission, the Commission shall give pref-
erence to individuals otherwise who have ac-
tive security clearances.
(j) REPORTS.—
(1) INTERIM REPORTS.—At any time prior to
the submission of the final report under
paragraph (2), the Commission may submit
interim reports to the President and Con-
gress such findings, conclusions, and rec-
ommendations to strengthen protections for
democratic institutions in the United States
as have been agreed to by a majority of the
members of the Commission.
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 18
months after the date of the first meeting of
the Commission, the Commission shall sub-
mit to the President and Congress a final re-
port containing such findings, conclusions,
and recommendations to strengthen protec-
tions for democratic institutions in the
United States as have been agreed to by a
majority of the members of the Commission.
(k) TERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall ter-
minate upon the expiration of the 60-day pe-
riod which begins on the date on which the
Commission submits the final report re-
quired under subsection (j)(2).
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIVITIES PRIOR TO
TERMINATION.—During the 60-day period de-
scribed in paragraph (2), the Commission
may carry out such administrative activities
as may be required to conclude its work, in-
cluding providing testimony to committees
of Congress concerning the final report and
disseminating the final report.
Subtitle D—Promoting Cybersecurity
Through Improvements in Election Admin-
istration
SEC. 3301. TESTING OF EXISTING VOTING SYS-
TEMS TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE
WITH ELECTION CYBERSECURITY
GUIDELINES AND OTHER GUIDE-
LINES.
(a) REQUIRING TESTING OF EXISTING VOTING
SYSTEMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 231(a) of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 20971(a))
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(3) TESTING TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH
GUIDELINES.—
‘‘(A) TESTING.—Not later than 9 months be-
fore the date of each regularly scheduled
general election for Federal office, the Com-
mission shall provide for the testing by ac-
credited laboratories under this section of
the voting system hardware and software
which was certified for use in the most re-
cent such election, on the basis of the most
recent voting system guidelines applicable
to such hardware or software (including elec-
tion cybersecurity guidelines) issued under
this Act.
‘‘(B) DECERTIFICATION OF HARDWARE OR
SOFTWARE FAILING TO MEET GUIDELINES.—If,
on the basis of the testing described in sub-
paragraph (A), the Commission determines
that any voting system hardware or software
does not meet the most recent guidelines ap-
plicable to such hardware or software issued
under this Act, the Commission shall decer-
tify such hardware or software.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by paragraph (1) shall apply with re-
spect to the regularly scheduled general
election for Federal office held in November
2020 and each succeeding regularly scheduled
general election for Federal office.
(b) ISSUANCE OF CYBERSECURITY GUIDELINES
BY TECHNICAL GUIDELINES DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE.—Section 221(b) of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 20961(b))
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(3) ELECTION CYBERSECURITY GUIDELINES.—
Not later than 6 months after the date of the
enactment of this paragraph, the Develop-
ment Committee shall issue election cyber-
security guidelines, including standards and
best practices for procuring, maintaining,
testing, operating, and updating election
systems to prevent and deter cybersecurity
incidents.’’.
SEC. 3302. TREATMENT OF ELECTRONIC POLL
BOOKS AS PART OF VOTING SYS-
TEMS.
(a) INCLUSION IN DEFINITION OF VOTING SYS-
TEM.—Section 301(b) of the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081(b)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘this section’’ and inserting
‘‘this Act’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (1);
(3) by redesignating paragraph (2) as para-
graph (3); and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(2) any electronic poll book used with re-
spect to the election; and’’.
(b) DEFINITION.—Section 301 of such Act (52
U.S.C. 21081) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d)
as subsections (d) and (e); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(c) ELECTRONIC POLL BOOK DEFINED.—In
this Act, the term ‘electronic poll book’
means the total combination of mechanical,
electromechanical, or electronic equipment
(including the software, firmware, and docu-
mentation required to program, control, and
support the equipment) that is used—
‘‘(1) to retain the list of registered voters
at a polling location, or vote center, or other
location at which voters cast votes in an
election for Federal office; and
‘‘(2) to identify registered voters who are
eligible to vote in an election.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Section 301(e) of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 21081(e)), as redesignated by
subsection (b), is amended by striking the
period at the end and inserting the following:
‘‘, or, with respect to any requirements re-
lating to electronic poll books, on and after
January 1, 2020.’’.
SEC. 3303. PRE-ELECTION REPORTS ON VOTING
SYSTEM USAGE.
(a) REQUIRING STATES TO SUBMIT RE-
PORTS.—Title III of the Help America Vote
Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081 et seq.) is amend-
ed by inserting after section 301 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 301A. PRE-ELECTION REPORTS ON VOTING
SYSTEM USAGE.
‘‘(a) REQUIRING STATES TO SUBMIT RE-
PORTS.—Not later than 120 days before the
date of each regularly scheduled general
election for Federal office, the chief State
election official of a State shall submit a re-
port to the Commission containing a de-
tailed voting system usage plan for each ju-
risdiction in the State which will administer
the election, including a detailed plan for
the usage of electronic poll books and other
equipment and components of such system.
‘‘(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Subsection (a) shall
apply with respect to the regularly scheduled
general election for Federal office held in
November 2020 and each succeeding regularly
scheduled general election for Federal of-
fice.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 301 the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 301A. Pre-election reports on voting
system usage.’’.
SEC. 3304. STREAMLINING COLLECTION OF ELEC-
TION INFORMATION.
Section 202 of the Help America Vote Act
of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 20922) is amended—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2445
March 6, 2019
(1) by striking ‘‘The Commission’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commission’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(b) WAIVER OF CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS.—
Subchapter I of chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code, shall not apply to the collection
of information for purposes of maintaining
the clearinghouse described in paragraph (1)
of subsection (a).’’.
Subtitle E—Preventing Election Hacking
SEC. 3401. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Prevent
Election Hacking Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 3402. ELECTION SECURITY BUG BOUNTY
PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish a program to be
known as the ‘‘Election Security Bug Boun-
ty Program’’ (hereafter in this subtitle re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Program’’) to improve the
cybersecurity of the systems used to admin-
ister elections for Federal office by facili-
tating and encouraging assessments by inde-
pendent technical experts, in cooperation
with State and local election officials and
election service providers, to identify and re-
port election cybersecurity vulnerabilities.
(b) VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION BY ELECTION
OFFICIALS AND ELECTION SERVICE PRO-
VIDERS.—
(1) NO REQUIREMENT TO PARTICIPATE IN PRO-
GRAM.—Participation in the Program shall
be entirely voluntary for State and local
election officials and election service pro-
viders.
(2) ENCOURAGING PARTICIPATION AND INPUT
FROM ELECTION OFFICIALS.—In developing the
Program, the Secretary shall solicit input
from, and encourage participation by, State
and local election officials.
(c) ACTIVITIES FUNDED.—In establishing
and carrying out the Program, the Secretary
shall—
(1) establish a process for State and local
election officials and election service pro-
viders to voluntarily participate in the Pro-
gram;
(2) designate appropriate information sys-
tems to be included in the Program;
(3) provide compensation to eligible indi-
viduals, organizations, and companies for re-
ports of previously unidentified security
vulnerabilities within the information sys-
tems designated under subparagraph (A) and
establish criteria for individuals, organiza-
tions, and companies to be considered eligi-
ble for such compensation in compliance
with Federal laws;
(4) consult with the Attorney General on
how to ensure that approved individuals, or-
ganizations, or companies that comply with
the requirements of the Program are pro-
tected from prosecution under section 1030 of
title 18, United States Code, and similar pro-
visions of law, and from liability under civil
actions for specific activities authorized
under the Program;
(5) consult with the Secretary of Defense
and the heads of other departments and
agencies that have implemented programs to
provide compensation for reports of pre-
viously undisclosed vulnerabilities in infor-
mation systems, regarding lessons that may
be applied from such programs;
(6) develop an expeditious process by which
an individual, organization, or company can
register with the Department, submit to a
background check as determined by the De-
partment, and receive a determination as to
eligibility for participation in the Program;
and
(7) engage qualified interested persons, in-
cluding representatives of private entities,
about the structure of the Program and, to
the extent practicable, establish a recurring
competition for independent technical ex-
perts to assess election systems for the pur-
pose of identifying and reporting election cy-
bersecurity vulnerabilities;
(d) USE OF SERVICE PROVIDERS.—The Sec-
retary may award competitive contracts as
necessary to manage the Program.
SEC. 3403. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle, the following definitions
apply:
(1) The terms ‘‘election’’ and ‘‘Federal of-
fice’’ have the meanings given such terms in
section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).
(2) The term ‘‘election cybersecurity vul-
nerability’’ means any security vulnerability
(as defined in section 102 of the Cybersecu-
rity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6
U.S.C. 1501)) that affects an election system.
(3) The term ‘‘election service provider’’
means any person providing, supporting, or
maintaining an election system on behalf of
a State or local election official, such as a
contractor or vendor.
(4) The term ‘‘election system’’ means any
information system (as defined in section
3502 of title 44, United States Code) which is
part of an election infrastructure.
(5) The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, or, upon des-
ignation by the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, the Deputy Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity, the Director of Cybersecurity and In-
frastructure Security of the Department of
Homeland Security, or a Senate-confirmed
official that reports to the Director.
(6) The term ‘‘State’’ means each of the
several States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, Amer-
ican Samoa, the Commonwealth of Northern
Mariana Islands, and the United States Vir-
gin Islands.
(7) The term ‘‘voting system’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 301(b) of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21081(b)).
Subtitle F—Miscellaneous Provisions
SEC. 3501. DEFINITIONS.
Except as provided in section 3403, in this
title, the following definitions apply:
(1) The term ‘‘Chairman’’ means the chair
of the Election Assistance Commission.
(2) The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means the Committees on
Homeland Security and House Administra-
tion of the House of Representatives and the
Committees on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs and Rules and Administra-
tion of the Senate.
(3) The term ‘‘chief State election official’’
means, with respect to a State, the indi-
vidual designated by the State under section
10 of the National Voter Registration Act of
1993 (52 U.S.C. 20509) to be responsible for co-
ordination of the State’s responsibilities
under such Act.
(4) The term ‘‘Commission’’ means the
Election Assistance Commission.
(5) The term ‘‘democratic institutions’’
means the diverse range of institutions that
are essential to ensuring an independent ju-
diciary, free and fair elections, and rule of
law.
(6) The term ‘‘election agency’’ means any
component of a State, or any component of
a unit of local government in a State, which
is responsible for the administration of elec-
tions for Federal office in the State.
(7) The term ‘‘election infrastructure’’
means storage facilities, polling places, and
centralized vote tabulation locations used to
support the administration of elections for
public office, as well as related information
and communications technology, including
voter registration databases, voting ma-
chines, electronic mail and other commu-
nications systems (including electronic mail
and other systems of vendors who have en-
tered into contracts with election agencies
to support the administration of elections,
manage the election process, and report and
display election results), and other systems
used to manage the election process and to
report and display election results on behalf
of an election agency.
(8) The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security.
(9) The term ‘‘State’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 901 of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21141).
SEC. 3502. INITIAL REPORT ON ADEQUACY OF RE-
SOURCES AVAILABLE FOR IMPLE-
MENTATION.
Not later than 120 days after enactment of
this Act, the Chairman and the Secretary
shall submit a report to the appropriate
committees of Congress, including the Com-
mittees on Homeland Security and House
Administration of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs of the Senate,
analyzing the adequacy of the funding, re-
sources, and personnel available to carry out
this title and the amendments made by this
title.
Subtitle G—Severability
SEC. 3601. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title or amendment
made by this title, or the application of a
provision or amendment to any person or
circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this title and amendments
made by this title, and the application of the
provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
DIVISION B—CAMPAIGN FINANCE
TITLE IV—CAMPAIGN FINANCE
TRANSPARENCY
Subtitle A—Findings Relating to Illicit
Money Undermining Our Democracy
Sec. 4001. Findings relating to illicit money
undermining our democracy.
Subtitle B—DISCLOSE Act
Sec. 4100. Short title.
PART 1—REGULATION OF CERTAIN POLITICAL
SPENDING
Sec. 4101. Application of ban on contribu-
tions and expenditures by for-
eign nationals to domestic cor-
porations, limited liability cor-
porations, and partnerships
that are foreign-controlled, for-
eign-influenced, and foreign-
owned.
Sec. 4102. Clarification of application of for-
eign money ban to certain dis-
bursements and activities.
PART 2—REPORTING OF CAMPAIGN-RELATED
DISBURSEMENTS
Sec. 4111. Reporting of campaign-related dis-
bursements.
Sec. 4112. Application of foreign money ban
to disbursements for campaign-
related disbursements con-
sisting of covered transfers.
Sec. 4113. Effective date.
PART 3—OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE REFORMS
Sec. 4121. Petition for certiorari.
Sec. 4122. Judicial review of actions related
to campaign finance laws.
Subtitle C—Honest Ads
Sec. 4201. Short title.
Sec. 4202. Purpose.
Sec. 4203. Findings.
Sec. 4204. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 4205. Expansion of definition of public
communication.
Sec. 4206. Expansion of definition of elec-
tioneering communication.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2446 March 6, 2019
Sec. 4207. Application of disclaimer state-
ments to online communica-
tions.
Sec. 4208. Political record requirements for
online platforms.
Sec. 4209. Preventing contributions, expend-
itures, independent expendi-
tures, and disbursements for
electioneering communications
by foreign nationals in the form
of online advertising.
Subtitle D—Stand By Every Ad
Sec. 4301. Short title.
Sec. 4302. Stand By Every Ad.
Sec. 4303. Disclaimer requirements for com-
munications made through
prerecorded telephone calls.
Sec. 4304. No expansion of persons subject to
disclaimer requirements on
Internet communications.
Sec. 4305. Effective date.
Subtitle E—Secret Money Transparency
Sec. 4401. Repeal of restriction of use of
funds by Internal Revenue
Service to bring transparency
to political activity of certain
nonprofit organizations.
Subtitle F—Shareholder Right-to-Know
Sec. 4501. Repeal of restriction on use of
funds by Securities and Ex-
change Commission to ensure
shareholders of corporations
have knowledge of corporation
political activity.
Subtitle G—Disclosure of Political Spending
by Government Contractors
Sec. 4601. Repeal of restriction on use of
funds to require disclosure of
political spending by govern-
ment contractors.
Subtitle H—Limitation and Disclosure Re-
quirements for Presidential Inaugural
Committees
Sec. 4701. Short title.
Sec. 4702. Limitations and disclosure of cer-
tain donations to, and disburse-
ments by, Inaugural Commit-
tees.
Subtitle I—Severability
Sec. 4801. Severability.
Subtitle A—Findings Relating to Illicit Money
Undermining Our Democracy
SEC. 4001. FINDINGS RELATING TO ILLICIT
MONEY UNDERMINING OUR DEMOC-
RACY.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Criminals, terrorists, and corrupt gov-
ernment officials frequently abuse anony-
mously held Limited Liability Companies
(LLCs), also known as ‘‘shell companies,’’ to
hide, move, and launder the dirty money de-
rived from illicit activities such as traf-
ficking, bribery, exploitation, and embezzle-
ment. Ownership and control of the finances
that run through shell companies are ob-
scured to regulators and law enforcement be-
cause little information is required and col-
lected when establishing these entities.
(2) The public release of the ‘‘Panama Pa-
pers’’ in 2016 and the ‘‘Paradise Papers’’ in
2017 revealed that these shell companies
often purchase and sell United States real es-
tate. United States anti-money laundering
laws do not apply to cash transactions in-
volving real estate effectively concealing the
beneficiaries and transactions from regu-
lators and law enforcement.
(3) Congress should curb the use of anony-
mous shell companies for illicit purposes by
requiring United States companies to dis-
close their beneficial owners, strengthening
anti-money laundering and counter-ter-
rorism finance laws.
(4) Congress should examine the money
laundering and terrorist financing risks in
the real estate market, including the role of
anonymous parties, and review legislation to
address any vulnerabilities identified in this
sector.
(5) Congress should examine the methods
by which corruption flourishes and the
means to detect and deter the financial mis-
conduct that fuels this driver of global insta-
bility. Congress should monitor government
efforts to enforce United States anti-corrup-
tion laws and regulations.
Subtitle B—DISCLOSE Act
SEC. 4100. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Democ-
racy Is Strengthened by Casting Light On
Spending in Elections Act of 2019’’ or the
‘‘DISCLOSE Act of 2019’’.
PART 1—REGULATION OF CERTAIN
POLITICAL SPENDING
SEC. 4101. CLARIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON
PARTICIPATION BY FOREIGN NA-
TIONALS IN ELECTION-RELATED AC-
TIVITIES.
(a) CLARIFICATION OF PROHIBITION.—Section
319(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of paragraph
(1);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (2) and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) a foreign national to direct, dictate,
control, or directly or indirectly participate
in the decision making process of any person
(including a corporation, labor organization,
political committee, or political organiza-
tion) with regard to such person’s Federal or
non-Federal election-related activity, in-
cluding any decision concerning the making
of contributions, donations, expenditures, or
disbursements in connection with an elec-
tion for any Federal, State, or local office or
any decision concerning the administration
of a political committee.’’.
(b) CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.—Section
319 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30121) is amended
by adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(c) CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE RE-
QUIRED PRIOR TO CARRYING OUT ACTIVITY.—
Prior to the making in connection with an
election for Federal office of any contribu-
tion, donation, expenditure, independent ex-
penditures, or disbursement for an election-
eering communication by a corporation, lim-
ited liability corporation, or partnership
during a year, the chief executive officer of
the corporation, limited liability corpora-
tion, or partnership (or, if the corporation,
limited liability corporation, or partnership
does not have a chief executive officer, the
highest ranking official of the corporation,
limited liability corporation, or partner-
ship), shall file a certification with the Com-
mission, under penalty or perjury, that a for-
eign national did not direct, dictate, control,
or directly or indirectly participate in the
decision making process relating to such ac-
tivity in violation of subsection (a)(3), unless
the chief executive officer has previously
filed such a certification during that cal-
endar year.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect upon
the expiration of the 180-day period which
begins on the date of the enactment of this
Act, and shall take effect without regard to
whether or not the Federal Election Com-
mission has promulgated regulations to
carry out such amendments.
SEC. 4102. CLARIFICATION OF APPLICATION OF
FOREIGN MONEY BAN TO CERTAIN
DISBURSEMENTS AND ACTIVITIES.
(a) APPLICATION TO DISBURSEMENTS TO
SUPER PACS.—Section 319(a)(1)(A) of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30121(a)(1)(A)) is amended by striking
the semicolon and inserting the following: ‘‘,
including any disbursement to a political
committee which accepts donations or con-
tributions that do not comply with the limi-
tations, prohibitions, and reporting require-
ments of this Act (or any disbursement to or
on behalf of any account of a political com-
mittee which is established for the purpose
of accepting such donations or contribu-
tions);’’.
(b) CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH CORPORATE
PACS MAY MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS AND EX-
PENDITURES.—Section 316(b) of such Act (52
U.S.C. 30118(b)) is amended by adding at the
end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(8) A separate segregated fund established
by a corporation may not make a contribu-
tion or expenditure during a year unless the
fund has certified to the Commission the fol-
lowing during the year:
‘‘(A) Each individual who manages the
fund, and who is responsible for exercising
decisionmaking authority for the fund, is a
citizen of the United States or is lawfully ad-
mitted for permanent residence in the
United States.
‘‘(B) No foreign national under section 319
participates in any way in the decision-
making processes of the fund with regard to
contributions or expenditures under this
Act.
‘‘(C) The fund does not solicit or accept
recommendations from any foreign national
under section 319 with respect to the con-
tributions or expenditures made by the fund.
‘‘(D) Any member of the board of directors
of the corporation who is a foreign national
under section 319 abstains from voting on
matters concerning the fund or its activi-
ties.’’.
PART 2—REPORTING OF CAMPAIGN-
RELATED DISBURSEMENTS
SEC. 4111. REPORTING OF CAMPAIGN-RELATED
DISBURSEMENTS.
(a) DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR COR-
PORATIONS, LABOR ORGANIZATIONS, AND CER-
TAIN OTHER ENTITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 324 of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30126) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 324. DISCLOSURE OF CAMPAIGN-RELATED
DISBURSEMENTS BY COVERED OR-
GANIZATIONS.
‘‘(a) DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Any covered organiza-
tion that makes campaign-related disburse-
ments aggregating more than $10,000 in an
election reporting cycle shall, not later than
24 hours after each disclosure date, file a
statement with the Commission made under
penalty of perjury that contains the infor-
mation described in paragraph (2)—
‘‘(A) in the case of the first statement filed
under this subsection, for the period begin-
ning on the first day of the election report-
ing cycle (or, if earlier, the period beginning
one year before the first such disclosure
date) and ending on the first such disclosure
date; and
‘‘(B) in the case of any subsequent state-
ment filed under this subsection, for the pe-
riod beginning on the previous disclosure
date and ending on such disclosure date.
‘‘(2) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—The infor-
mation described in this paragraph is as fol-
lows:
‘‘(A) The name of the covered organization
and the principal place of business of such
organization and, in the case of a covered or-
ganization that is a corporation (other than
a business concern that is an issuer of a class
of securities registered under section 12 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78l) or that is required to file reports
under section 15(d) of that Act (15 U.S.C.
78o(d))) or an entity described in subsection
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2447
March 6, 2019
(e)(2), a list of the beneficial owners (as de-
fined in paragraph (4)(A)) of the entity that—
‘‘(i) identifies each beneficial owner by
name and current residential or business
street address; and
‘‘(ii) if any beneficial owner exercises con-
trol over the entity through another legal
entity, such as a corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, or trust, identi-
fies each such other legal entity and each
such beneficial owner who will use that
other entity to exercise control over the en-
tity.
‘‘(B) The amount of each campaign-related
disbursement made by such organization
during the period covered by the statement
of more than $1,000, and the name and ad-
dress of the person to whom the disburse-
ment was made.
‘‘(C) In the case of a campaign-related dis-
bursement that is not a covered transfer, the
election to which the campaign-related dis-
bursement pertains and if the disbursement
is made for a public communication, the
name of any candidate identified in such
communication and whether such commu-
nication is in support of or in opposition to
a candidate.
‘‘(D) A certification by the chief executive
officer or person who is the head of the cov-
ered organization that the campaign-related
disbursement is not made in cooperation,
consultation, or concert with or at the re-
quest or suggestion of a candidate, author-
ized committee, or agent of a candidate, po-
litical party, or agent of a political party.
‘‘(E)(i) If the covered organization makes
campaign-related disbursements using exclu-
sively funds in a segregated bank account
consisting of funds that were paid directly to
such account by persons other than the cov-
ered organization that controls the account,
for each such payment to the account—
‘‘(I) the name and address of each person
who made such payment during the period
covered by the statement;
‘‘(II) the date and amount of such pay-
ment; and
‘‘(III) the aggregate amount of all such
payments made by the person during the pe-
riod beginning on the first day of the elec-
tion reporting cycle (or, if earlier, the period
beginning one year before the disclosure
date) and ending on the disclosure date,
but only if such payment was made by a per-
son who made payments to the account in an
aggregate amount of $10,000 or more during
the period beginning on the first day of the
election reporting cycle (or, if earlier, the
period beginning one year before the disclo-
sure date) and ending on the disclosure date.
‘‘(ii) In any calendar year after 2020, sec-
tion 315(c)(1)(B) shall apply to the amount
described in clause (i) in the same manner as
such section applies to the limitations estab-
lished under subsections (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B),
(a)(3), and (h) of such section, except that for
purposes of applying such section to the
amounts described in subsection (b), the
‘base period’ shall be 2020.
‘‘(F)(i) If the covered organization makes
campaign-related disbursements using funds
other than funds in a segregated bank ac-
count described in subparagraph (E), for each
payment to the covered organization—
‘‘(I) the name and address of each person
who made such payment during the period
covered by the statement;
‘‘(II) the date and amount of such pay-
ment; and
‘‘(III) the aggregate amount of all such
payments made by the person during the pe-
riod beginning on the first day of the elec-
tion reporting cycle (or, if earlier, the period
beginning one year before the disclosure
date) and ending on the disclosure date,
but only if such payment was made by a per-
son who made payments to the covered orga-
nization in an aggregate amount of $10,000 or
more during the period beginning on the first
day of the election reporting cycle (or, if ear-
lier, the period beginning one year before the
disclosure date) and ending on the disclosure
date.
‘‘(ii) In any calendar year after 2020, sec-
tion 315(c)(1)(B) shall apply to the amount
described in clause (i) in the same manner as
such section applies to the limitations estab-
lished under subsections (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B),
(a)(3), and (h) of such section, except that for
purposes of applying such section to the
amounts described in subsection (b), the
‘base period’ shall be 2020.
‘‘(G) Such other information as required in
rules established by the Commission to pro-
mote the purposes of this section.
‘‘(3) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(A) AMOUNTS RECEIVED IN ORDINARY
COURSE OF BUSINESS.—The requirement to in-
clude in a statement filed under paragraph
(1) the information described in paragraph
(2) shall not apply to amounts received by
the covered organization in commercial
transactions in the ordinary course of any
trade or business conducted by the covered
organization or in the form of investments
(other than investments by the principal
shareholder in a limited liability corpora-
tion) in the covered organization. For pur-
poses of this subparagraph, amounts received
by a covered organization as remittances
from an employee to the employee’s collec-
tive bargaining representative shall be treat-
ed as amounts received in commercial trans-
actions in the ordinary course of the busi-
ness conducted by the covered organization.
‘‘(B) DONOR RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS.—
The requirement to include in a statement
submitted under paragraph (1) the informa-
tion described in subparagraph (F) of para-
graph (2) shall not apply if—
‘‘(i) the person described in such subpara-
graph prohibited, in writing, the use of the
payment made by such person for campaign-
related disbursements; and
‘‘(ii) the covered organization agreed to
follow the prohibition and deposited the pay-
ment in an account which is segregated from
any account used to make campaign-related
disbursements.
‘‘(C) THREAT OF HARASSMENT OR RE-
PRISAL.—The requirement to include any in-
formation relating to the name or address of
any person (other than a candidate) in a
statement submitted under paragraph (1)
shall not apply if the inclusion of the infor-
mation would subject the person to serious
threats, harassment, or reprisals.
‘‘(4) OTHER DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of
this section:
‘‘(A) BENEFICIAL OWNER DEFINED.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), the term ‘beneficial owner’
means, with respect to any entity, a natural
person who, directly or indirectly—
‘‘(I) exercises substantial control over an
entity through ownership, voting rights,
agreement, or otherwise; or
‘‘(II) has a substantial interest in or re-
ceives substantial economic benefits from
the assets of an entity.
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTIONS.—The term ‘beneficial
owner’ shall not include—
‘‘(I) a minor child;
‘‘(II) a person acting as a nominee, inter-
mediary, custodian, or agent on behalf of an-
other person;
‘‘(III) a person acting solely as an em-
ployee of an entity and whose control over or
economic benefits from the entity derives
solely from the employment status of the
person;
‘‘(IV) a person whose only interest in an
entity is through a right of inheritance, un-
less the person also meets the requirements
of clause (i); or
‘‘(V) a creditor of an entity, unless the
creditor also meets the requirements of
clause (i).
‘‘(iii) ANTI-ABUSE RULE.—The exceptions
under clause (ii) shall not apply if used for
the purpose of evading, circumventing, or
abusing the provisions of clause (i) or para-
graph (2)(A).
‘‘(B) DISCLOSURE DATE.—The term ‘disclo-
sure date’ means—
‘‘(i) the first date during any election re-
porting cycle by which a person has made
campaign-related disbursements aggregating
more than $10,000; and
‘‘(ii) any other date during such election
reporting cycle by which a person has made
campaign-related disbursements aggregating
more than $10,000 since the most recent dis-
closure date for such election reporting
cycle.
‘‘(C) ELECTION REPORTING CYCLE.—The term
‘election reporting cycle’ means the 2-year
period beginning on the date of the most re-
cent general election for Federal office.
‘‘(D) PAYMENT.—The term ‘payment’ in-
cludes any contribution, donation, transfer,
payment of dues, or other payment.
‘‘(b) COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROVI-
SIONS.—
‘‘(1) OTHER REPORTS FILED WITH THE COM-
MISSION.—Information included in a state-
ment filed under this section may be ex-
cluded from statements and reports filed
under section 304.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT AS SEPARATE SEGREGATED
FUND.—A segregated bank account referred
to in subsection (a)(2)(E) may be treated as a
separate segregated fund for purposes of sec-
tion 527(f)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.
‘‘(c) FILING.—Statements required to be
filed under subsection (a) shall be subject to
the requirements of section 304(d) to the
same extent and in the same manner as if
such reports had been required under sub-
section (c) or (g) of section 304.
‘‘(d) CAMPAIGN-RELATED DISBURSEMENT DE-
FINED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In this section, the term
‘campaign-related disbursement’ means a
disbursement by a covered organization for
any of the following:
‘‘(A) An independent expenditure which ex-
pressly advocates the election or defeat of a
clearly identified candidate for election for
Federal office, or is the functional equiva-
lent of express advocacy because, when
taken as a whole, it can be interpreted by a
reasonable person only as advocating the
election or defeat of a candidate for election
for Federal office.
‘‘(B) Any public communication which re-
fers to a clearly identified candidate for elec-
tion for Federal office and which promotes or
supports the election of a candidate for that
office, or attacks or opposes the election of a
candidate for that office, without regard to
whether the communication expressly advo-
cates a vote for or against a candidate for
that office.
‘‘(C) An electioneering communication, as
defined in section 304(f)(3).
‘‘(D) A covered transfer.
‘‘(2) INTENT NOT REQUIRED.—A disbursement
for an item described in subparagraph (A),
(B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (1) shall be treat-
ed as a campaign-related disbursement re-
gardless of the intent of the person making
the disbursement.
‘‘(e) COVERED ORGANIZATION DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘covered organization’
means any of the following:
‘‘(1) A corporation (other than an organiza-
tion described in section 501(c)(3) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986).
‘‘(2) A limited liability corporation that is
not otherwise treated as a corporation for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2448 March 6, 2019
purposes of this Act (other than an organiza-
tion described in section 501(c)(3) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986).
‘‘(3) An organization described in section
501(c) of such Code and exempt from taxation
under section 501(a) of such Code (other than
an organization described in section 501(c)(3)
of such Code).
‘‘(4) A labor organization (as defined in sec-
tion 316(b)).
‘‘(5) Any political organization under sec-
tion 527 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
other than a political committee under this
Act (except as provided in paragraph (6)).
‘‘(6) A political committee with an account
that accepts donations or contributions that
do not comply with the contribution limits
or source prohibitions under this Act, but
only with respect to such accounts.
‘‘(f) COVERED TRANSFER DEFINED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In this section, the term
‘covered transfer’ means any transfer or pay-
ment of funds by a covered organization to
another person if the covered organization—
‘‘(A) designates, requests, or suggests that
the amounts be used for—
‘‘(i) campaign-related disbursements (other
than covered transfers); or
‘‘(ii) making a transfer to another person
for the purpose of making or paying for such
campaign-related disbursements;
‘‘(B) made such transfer or payment in re-
sponse to a solicitation or other request for
a donation or payment for—
‘‘(i) the making of or paying for campaign-
related disbursements (other than covered
transfers); or
‘‘(ii) making a transfer to another person
for the purpose of making or paying for such
campaign-related disbursements;
‘‘(C) engaged in discussions with the recipi-
ent of the transfer or payment regarding—
‘‘(i) the making of or paying for campaign-
related disbursements (other than covered
transfers); or
‘‘(ii) donating or transferring any amount
of such transfer or payment to another per-
son for the purpose of making or paying for
such campaign-related disbursements;
‘‘(D) made campaign-related disbursements
(other than a covered transfer) in an aggre-
gate amount of $50,000 or more during the 2-
year period ending on the date of the trans-
fer or payment, or knew or had reason to
know that the person receiving the transfer
or payment made such disbursements in such
an aggregate amount during that 2-year pe-
riod; or
‘‘(E) knew or had reason to know that the
person receiving the transfer or payment
would make campaign-related disbursements
in an aggregate amount of $50,000 or more
during the 2-year period beginning on the
date of the transfer or payment.
‘‘(2) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘covered trans-
fer’ does not include any of the following:
‘‘(A) A disbursement made by a covered or-
ganization in a commercial transaction in
the ordinary course of any trade or business
conducted by the covered organization or in
the form of investments made by the covered
organization.
‘‘(B) A disbursement made by a covered or-
ganization if—
‘‘(i) the covered organization prohibited, in
writing, the use of such disbursement for
campaign-related disbursements; and
‘‘(ii) the recipient of the disbursement
agreed to follow the prohibition and depos-
ited the disbursement in an account which is
segregated from any account used to make
campaign-related disbursements.
‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULE REGARDING TRANSFERS
AMONG AFFILIATES.—
‘‘(A) SPECIAL RULE.—A transfer of an
amount by one covered organization to an-
other covered organization which is treated
as a transfer between affiliates under sub-
paragraph (C) shall be considered a covered
transfer by the covered organization which
transfers the amount only if the aggregate
amount transferred during the year by such
covered organization to that same covered
organization is equal to or greater than
$50,000.
‘‘(B) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF CERTAIN
PAYMENTS AMONG AFFILIATES.—In deter-
mining the amount of a transfer between af-
filiates for purposes of subparagraph (A), to
the extent that the transfer consists of funds
attributable to dues, fees, or assessments
which are paid by individuals on a regular,
periodic basis in accordance with a per-indi-
vidual calculation which is made on a reg-
ular basis, the transfer shall be attributed to
the individuals paying the dues, fees, or as-
sessments and shall not be attributed to the
covered organization.
‘‘(C) DESCRIPTION OF TRANSFERS BETWEEN
AFFILIATES.—A transfer of amounts from one
covered organization to another covered or-
ganization shall be treated as a transfer be-
tween affiliates if—
‘‘(i) one of the organizations is an affiliate
of the other organization; or
‘‘(ii) each of the organizations is an affil-
iate of the same organization,
except that the transfer shall not be treated
as a transfer between affiliates if one of the
organizations is established for the purpose
of making campaign-related disbursements.
‘‘(D) DETERMINATION OF AFFILIATE STA-
TUS.—For purposes of subparagraph (C), a
covered organization is an affiliate of an-
other covered organization if—
‘‘(i) the governing instrument of the orga-
nization requires it to be bound by decisions
of the other organization;
‘‘(ii) the governing board of the organiza-
tion includes persons who are specifically
designated representatives of the other orga-
nization or are members of the governing
board, officers, or paid executive staff mem-
bers of the other organization, or whose serv-
ice on the governing board is contingent
upon the approval of the other organization;
or
‘‘(iii) the organization is chartered by the
other organization.
‘‘(E) COVERAGE OF TRANSFERS TO AFFILI-
ATED SECTION 501(c)(3) ORGANIZATIONS.—This
paragraph shall apply with respect to an
amount transferred by a covered organiza-
tion to an organization described in para-
graph (3) of section 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax
under section 501(a) of such Code in the same
manner as this paragraph applies to an
amount transferred by a covered organiza-
tion to another covered organization.
‘‘(g) NO EFFECT ON OTHER REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENTS.—Nothing in this section shall
be construed to waive or otherwise affect
any other requirement of this Act which re-
lates to the reporting of campaign-related
disbursements.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
304(f)(6) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30104) is
amended by striking ‘‘Any requirement’’ and
inserting ‘‘Except as provided in section
324(b), any requirement’’.
(b) COORDINATION WITH FINCEN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Finan-
cial Crimes Enforcement Network of the De-
partment of the Treasury shall provide the
Federal Election Commission with such in-
formation as necessary to assist in admin-
istering and enforcing section 324 of the Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act of 1971, as added
by this section.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 6 months after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Chairman of the Federal Election Commis-
sion, in consultation with the Director of the
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of
the Department of the Treasury, shall sub-
mit to Congress a report with recommenda-
tions for providing further legislative au-
thority to assist in the administration and
enforcement of such section 324.
SEC. 4112. APPLICATION OF FOREIGN MONEY
BAN TO DISBURSEMENTS FOR CAM-
PAIGN-RELATED DISBURSEMENTS
CONSISTING OF COVERED TRANS-
FERS.
Section 319(a)(1)(A) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30121(a)(1)(A)), as amended by section 4102, is
amended by striking the semicolon and in-
serting the following: ‘‘, and any disburse-
ment, other than an disbursement described
in section 324(a)(3)(A), to another person who
made a campaign-related disbursement con-
sisting of a covered transfer (as described in
section 324) during the 2-year period ending
on the date of the disbursement;’’.
SEC. 4113. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The amendments made by this part shall
apply with respect to disbursements made on
or after January 1, 2020, and shall take effect
without regard to whether or not the Federal
Election Commission has promulgated regu-
lations to carry out such amendments.
PART 3—OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE
REFORMS
SEC. 4121. PETITION FOR CERTIORARI.
Section 307(a)(6) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30107(a)(6)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘(including a pro-
ceeding before the Supreme Court on certio-
rari)’’ after ‘‘appeal’’.
SEC. 4122. JUDICIAL REVIEW OF ACTIONS RE-
LATED TO CAMPAIGN FINANCE
LAWS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title IV of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30141 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 406 the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 407. JUDICIAL REVIEW.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
373(f), if any action is brought for declara-
tory or injunctive relief to challenge the
constitutionality of any provision of this Act
or of chapter 95 or 96 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, or is brought to with respect to
any action of the Commission under chapter
95 or 96 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
the following rules shall apply:
‘‘(1) The action shall be filed in the United
States District Court for the District of Co-
lumbia and an appeal from the decision of
the district court may be taken to the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia Cir-
cuit.
‘‘(2) In the case of an action relating to de-
claratory or injunctive relief to challenge
the constitutionality of a provision—
‘‘(A) a copy of the complaint shall be deliv-
ered promptly to the Clerk of the House of
Representatives and the Secretary of the
Senate; and
‘‘(B) it shall be the duty of the United
States District Court for the District of Co-
lumbia, the Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia, and the Supreme Court of the
United States to advance on the docket and
to expedite to the greatest possible extent
the disposition of the action and appeal.
‘‘(b) INTERVENTION BY MEMBERS OF CON-
GRESS.—In any action in which the constitu-
tionality of any provision of this Act or
chapter 95 or 96 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 is raised, any Member of the House of
Representatives (including a Delegate or
Resident Commissioner to the Congress) or
Senate shall have the right to intervene ei-
ther in support of or opposition to the posi-
tion of a party to the case regarding the con-
stitutionality of the provision. To avoid du-
plication of efforts and reduce the burdens
placed on the parties to the action, the court
in any such action may make such orders as
it considers necessary, including orders to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2449
March 6, 2019
require interveners taking similar positions
to file joint papers or to be represented by a
single attorney at oral argument.
‘‘(c) CHALLENGE BY MEMBERS OF CON-
GRESS.—Any Member of Congress may bring
an action, subject to the special rules de-
scribed in subsection (a), for declaratory or
injunctive relief to challenge the constitu-
tionality of any provision of this Act or
chapter 95 or 96 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) Section 9011 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 9011. JUDICIAL REVIEW.
‘‘For provisions relating to judicial review
of certifications, determinations, and ac-
tions by the Commission under this chapter,
see section 407 of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971.’’.
(B) Section 9041 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 9041. JUDICIAL REVIEW.
‘‘For provisions relating to judicial review
of actions by the Commission under this
chapter, see section 407 of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971.’’.
(C) Section 403 of the Bipartisan Campaign
Reform Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 30110 note) is
repealed.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to actions
brought on or after January 1, 2019.
Subtitle C—Honest Ads
SEC. 4201. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Honest
Ads Act’’.
SEC. 4202. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subtitle is to enhance
the integrity of American democracy and na-
tional security by improving disclosure re-
quirements for online political advertise-
ments in order to uphold the Supreme
Court’s well-established standard that the
electorate bears the right to be fully in-
formed.
SEC. 4203. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) On January 6, 2017, the Office of the Di-
rector of National Intelligence published a
report titled ‘‘Assessing Russian Activities
and Intentions in Recent U.S. Elections’’,
noting that ‘‘Russian President Vladimir
Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016
aimed at the US presidential election . . .’’.
Moscow’s influence campaign followed a
Russian messaging strategy that blends cov-
ert intelligence operation—such as cyber ac-
tivity—with overt efforts by Russian Gov-
ernment agencies, state-funded media, third-
party intermediaries, and paid social media
users or ‘‘trolls’’.
(2) On November 24, 2016, The Washington
Post reported findings from 2 teams of inde-
pendent researchers that concluded Russians
‘‘exploited American-made technology plat-
forms to attack U.S. democracy at a particu-
larly vulnerable moment . . . as part of a
broadly effective strategy of sowing distrust
in U.S. democracy and its leaders.’’.
(3) Findings from a 2017 study on the ma-
nipulation of public opinion through social
media conducted by the Computational
Propaganda Research Project at the Oxford
Internet Institute found that the Kremlin is
using pro-Russian bots to manipulate public
discourse to a highly targeted audience.
With a sample of nearly 1,300,000 tweets, re-
searchers found that in the 2016 election’s 3
decisive States, propaganda constituted 40
percent of the sampled election-related
tweets that went to Pennsylvanians, 34 per-
cent to Michigan voters, and 30 percent to
those in Wisconsin. In other swing States,
the figure reached 42 percent in Missouri, 41
percent in Florida, 40 percent in North Caro-
lina, 38 percent in Colorado, and 35 percent
in Ohio.
(4) On September 6, 2017, the nation’s larg-
est social media platform disclosed that be-
tween June 2015 and May 2017, Russian enti-
ties purchased $100,000 in political advertise-
ments, publishing roughly 3,000 ads linked to
fake accounts associated with the Internet
Research Agency, a pro-Kremlin organiza-
tion. According to the company, the ads pur-
chased focused ‘‘on amplifying divisive social
and political messages . . .’’.
(5) In 2002, the Bipartisan Campaign Re-
form Act became law, establishing disclosure
requirements for political advertisements
distributed from a television or radio broad-
cast station or provider of cable or satellite
television. In 2003, the Supreme Court upheld
regulations on electioneering communica-
tions established under the Act, noting that
such requirements ‘‘provide the electorate
with information and insure that the voters
are fully informed about the person or group
who is speaking.’’.
(6) According to a study from Borrell Asso-
ciates, in 2016, $1,415,000,000 was spent on on-
line advertising, more than quadruple the
amount in 2012.
(7) The reach of a few large internet plat-
forms—larger than any broadcast, satellite,
or cable provider—has greatly facilitated the
scope and effectiveness of disinformation
campaigns. For instance, the largest plat-
form has over 210,000,000 Americans users—
over 160,000,000 of them on a daily basis. By
contrast, the largest cable television pro-
vider has 22,430,000 subscribers, while the
largest satellite television provider has
21,000,000 subscribers. And the most-watched
television broadcast in United States history
had 118,000,000 viewers.
(8) The public nature of broadcast tele-
vision, radio, and satellite ensures a level of
publicity for any political advertisement.
These communications are accessible to the
press, fact-checkers, and political opponents;
this creates strong disincentives for a can-
didate to disseminate materially false, in-
flammatory, or contradictory messages to
the public. Social media platforms, in con-
trast, can target portions of the electorate
with direct, ephemeral advertisements often
on the basis of private information the plat-
form has on individuals, enabling political
advertisements that are contradictory, ra-
cially or socially inflammatory, or materi-
ally false.
(9) According to comScore, 2 companies
own 8 of the 10 most popular smartphone ap-
plications as of June 2017, including the most
popular social media and email services—
which deliver information and news to users
without requiring proactivity by the user.
Those same 2 companies accounted for 99
percent of revenue growth from digital ad-
vertising in 2016, including 77 percent of
gross spending. 79 percent of online Ameri-
cans—representing 68 percent of all Ameri-
cans—use the single largest social network,
while 66 percent of these users are most like-
ly to get their news from that site.
(10) In its 2006 rulemaking, the Federal
Election Commission noted that only 18 per-
cent of all Americans cited the internet as
their leading source of news about the 2004
Presidential election; by contrast, the Pew
Research Center found that 65 percent of
Americans identified an internet-based
source as their leading source of information
for the 2016 election.
(11) The Federal Election Commission, the
independent Federal agency charged with
protecting the integrity of the Federal cam-
paign finance process by providing trans-
parency and administering campaign finance
laws, has failed to take action to address on-
line political advertisements.
(12) In testimony before the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence titled,
‘‘Disinformation: A Primer in Russian Ac-
tive Measures and Influence Campaigns’’,
multiple expert witnesses testified that
while the disinformation tactics of foreign
adversaries have not necessarily changed, so-
cial media services now provide ‘‘platform[s]
practically purpose-built for active
measures[.]’’ Similarly, as Gen. Keith B.
Alexander (RET.), the former Director of the
National Security Agency, testified, during
the Cold War ‘‘if the Soviet Union sought to
manipulate information flow, it would have
to do so principally through its own propa-
ganda outlets or through active measures
that would generate specific news: planting
of leaflets, inciting of violence, creation of
other false materials and narratives. But the
news itself was hard to manipulate because
it would have required actual control of the
organs of media, which took long-term ef-
forts to penetrate. Today, however, because
the clear majority of the information on so-
cial media sites is uncurated and there is a
rapid proliferation of information sources
and other sites that can reinforce informa-
tion, there is an increasing likelihood that
the information available to average con-
sumers may be inaccurate (whether inten-
tionally or otherwise) and may be more eas-
ily manipulable than in prior eras.’’.
(13) Current regulations on political adver-
tisements do not provide sufficient trans-
parency to uphold the public’s right to be
fully informed about political advertise-
ments made online.
SEC. 4204. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the dramatic increase in digital polit-
ical advertisements, and the growing cen-
trality of online platforms in the lives of
Americans, requires the Congress and the
Federal Election Commission to take mean-
ingful action to ensure that laws and regula-
tions provide the accountability and trans-
parency that is fundamental to our democ-
racy;.
(2) free and fair elections require both
transparency and accountability which give
the public a right to know the true sources
of funding for political advertisements in
order to make informed political choices and
hold elected officials accountable; and
(3) transparency of funding for political ad-
vertisements is essential to enforce other
campaign finance laws, including the prohi-
bition on campaign spending by foreign na-
tionals.
SEC. 4205. EXPANSION OF DEFINITION OF PUBLIC
COMMUNICATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (22) of section
301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101(22)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘or satellite communication’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘satellite, paid internet, or paid digital
communication’’.
(b) TREATMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS AND EX-
PENDITURES.—Section 301 of such Act (52
U.S.C. 30101) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (8)(B)(v), by striking ‘‘on
broadcasting stations, or in newspapers,
magazines, or similar types of general public
political advertising’’ and inserting ‘‘in any
public communication’’; and
(2) in paragraph (9)(B)—
(A) by amending clause (i) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(i) any news story, commentary, or edi-
torial distributed through the facilities of
any broadcasting station or any print, on-
line, or digital newspaper, magazine, blog,
publication, or periodical, unless such broad-
casting, print, online, or digital facilities are
owned or controlled by any political party,
political committee, or candidate;’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2450 March 6, 2019
(B) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘on broad-
casting stations, or in newspapers, maga-
zines, or similar types of general public po-
litical advertising’’ and inserting ‘‘in any
public communication’’.
(c) DISCLOSURE AND DISCLAIMER STATE-
MENTS.—Subsection (a) of section 318 of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 30120) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘financing any communica-
tion through any broadcasting station, news-
paper, magazine, outdoor advertising facil-
ity, mailing, or any other type of general
public political advertising’’ and inserting
‘‘financing any public communication’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘solicits any contribution
through any broadcasting station, news-
paper, magazine, outdoor advertising facil-
ity, mailing, or any other type of general
public political advertising’’ and inserting
‘‘solicits any contribution through any pub-
lic communication’’.
SEC. 4206. EXPANSION OF DEFINITION OF ELEC-
TIONEERING COMMUNICATION.
(a) EXPANSION TO ONLINE COMMUNICA-
TIONS.—
(1) APPLICATION TO QUALIFIED INTERNET AND
DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) of sec-
tion 304(f)(3) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30104(f)(3)(A)) is
amended by striking ‘‘or satellite commu-
nication’’ each place it appears in clauses (i)
and (ii) and inserting ‘‘satellite, or qualified
internet or digital communication’’.
(B) QUALIFIED INTERNET OR DIGITAL COMMU-
NICATION.—Paragraph (3) of section 304(f) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 30104(f)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(D) QUALIFIED INTERNET OR DIGITAL COM-
MUNICATION.—The term ‘qualified internet or
digital communication’ means any commu-
nication which is placed or promoted for a
fee on an online platform (as defined in sub-
section (j)(3)).’’.
(2) NONAPPLICATION OF RELEVANT ELEC-
TORATE TO ONLINE COMMUNICATIONS.—Section
304(f)(3)(A)(i)(III) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
30104(f)(3)(A)(i)(III)) is amended by inserting
‘‘any broadcast, cable, or satellite’’ before
‘‘communication’’.
(3) NEWS EXEMPTION.—Section 304(f)(3)(B)(i)
of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30104(f)(3)(B)(i)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(i) a communication appearing in a news
story, commentary, or editorial distributed
through the facilities of any broadcasting
station or any online or digital newspaper,
magazine, blog, publication, or periodical,
unless such broadcasting, online, or digital
facilities are owned or controlled by any po-
litical party, political committee, or can-
didate;’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to communications made on or after Janu-
ary 1, 2020.
SEC. 4207. APPLICATION OF DISCLAIMER STATE-
MENTS TO ONLINE COMMUNICA-
TIONS.
(a) CLEAR AND CONSPICUOUS MANNER RE-
QUIREMENT.—Subsection (a) of section 318 of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30120(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘shall clearly state’’ each
place it appears in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3)
and inserting ‘‘shall state in a clear and con-
spicuous manner’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following flush
sentence: ‘‘For purposes of this section, a
communication does not make a statement
in a clear and conspicuous manner if it is dif-
ficult to read or hear or if the placement is
easily overlooked.’’.
(b) SPECIAL RULES FOR QUALIFIED INTERNET
OR DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 318 of such Act (52
U.S.C. 30120) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(e) SPECIAL RULES FOR QUALIFIED INTER-
NET OR DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS.—
‘‘(1) SPECIAL RULES WITH RESPECT TO STATE-
MENTS.—In the case of any qualified internet
or digital communication (as defined in sec-
tion 304(f)(3)(D)) which is disseminated
through a medium in which the provision of
all of the information specified in this sec-
tion is not possible, the communication
shall, in a clear and conspicuous manner—
‘‘(A) state the name of the person who paid
for the communication; and
‘‘(B) provide a means for the recipient of
the communication to obtain the remainder
of the information required under this sec-
tion with minimal effort and without receiv-
ing or viewing any additional material other
than such required information.
‘‘(2) SAFE HARBOR FOR DETERMINING CLEAR
AND CONSPICUOUS MANNER.—A statement in
qualified internet or digital communication
(as defined in section 304(f)(3)(D)) shall be
considered to be made in a clear and con-
spicuous manner as provided in subsection
(a) if the communication meets the following
requirements:
‘‘(A) TEXT OR GRAPHIC COMMUNICATIONS.—In
the case of a text or graphic communication,
the statement—
‘‘(i) appears in letters at least as large as
the majority of the text in the communica-
tion; and
‘‘(ii) meets the requirements of paragraphs
(2) and (3) of subsection (c).
‘‘(B) AUDIO COMMUNICATIONS.—In the case
of an audio communication, the statement is
spoken in a clearly audible and intelligible
manner at the beginning or end of the com-
munication and lasts at least 3 seconds.
‘‘(C) VIDEO COMMUNICATIONS.—In the case of
a video communication which also includes
audio, the statement—
‘‘(i) is included at either the beginning or
the end of the communication; and
‘‘(ii) is made both in—
‘‘(I) a written format that meets the re-
quirements of subparagraph (A) and appears
for at least 4 seconds; and
‘‘(II) an audible format that meets the re-
quirements of subparagraph (B).
‘‘(D) OTHER COMMUNICATIONS.—In the case
of any other type of communication, the
statement is at least as clear and con-
spicuous as the statement specified in sub-
paragraph (A), (B), or (C).’’.
(2) NONAPPLICATION OF CERTAIN EXCEP-
TIONS.—The exceptions provided in section
110.11(f)(1)(i) and (ii) of title 11, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, or any successor to such
rules, shall have no application to qualified
internet or digital communications (as de-
fined in section 304(f)(3)(D) of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971).
(c) MODIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR CERTAIN COMMUNICATIONS.—Sec-
tion 318(d) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30120(d)) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘which is transmitted
through radio’’ and inserting ‘‘which is in an
audio format’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘BY RADIO’’ in the heading
and inserting ‘‘AUDIO FORMAT’’;
(2) in paragraph (1)(B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘which is transmitted
through television’’ and inserting ‘‘which is
in video format’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘BY TELEVISION’’ in the
heading and inserting ‘‘VIDEO FORMAT’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘transmitted through radio
or television’’ and inserting ‘‘made in audio
or video format’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘through television’’ in the
second sentence and inserting ‘‘in video for-
mat’’.
SEC. 4208. POLITICAL RECORD REQUIREMENTS
FOR ONLINE PLATFORMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 304 of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30104) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(j) DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN ONLINE ADVER-
TISEMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) REQUIREMENTS FOR ONLINE PLAT-
FORMS.—An online platform shall maintain,
and make available for online public inspec-
tion in machine readable format, a complete
record of any request to purchase on such on-
line platform a qualified political advertise-
ment which is made by a person whose ag-
gregate requests to purchase qualified polit-
ical advertisements on such online platform
during the calendar year exceeds $500.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS FOR ADVERTISERS.—
Any person who requests to purchase a quali-
fied political advertisement on an online
platform shall provide the online platform
with such information as is necessary for the
online platform to comply with the require-
ments of subparagraph (A).
‘‘(2) CONTENTS OF RECORD.—A record main-
tained under paragraph (1)(A) shall contain—
‘‘(A) a digital copy of the qualified polit-
ical advertisement;
‘‘(B) a description of the audience targeted
by the advertisement, the number of views
generated from the advertisement, and the
date and time that the advertisement is first
displayed and last displayed; and
‘‘(C) information regarding—
‘‘(i) the average rate charged for the adver-
tisement;
‘‘(ii) the name of the candidate to which
the advertisement refers and the office to
which the candidate is seeking election, the
election to which the advertisement refers,
or the national legislative issue to which the
advertisement refers (as applicable);
‘‘(iii) in the case of a request made by, or
on behalf of, a candidate, the name of the
candidate, the authorized committee of the
candidate, and the treasurer of such com-
mittee; and
‘‘(iv) in the case of any request not de-
scribed in clause (iii), the name of the person
purchasing the advertisement, the name and
address of a contact person for such person,
and a list of the chief executive officers or
members of the executive committee or of
the board of directors of such person.
‘‘(3) ONLINE PLATFORM.—For purposes of
this subsection, the term ‘online platform’
means any public-facing website, web appli-
cation, or digital application (including a so-
cial network, ad network, or search engine)
which—
‘‘(A) sells qualified political advertise-
ments; and
‘‘(B) has 50,000,000 or more unique monthly
United States visitors or users for a majority
of months during the preceding 12 months.
‘‘(4) QUALIFIED POLITICAL ADVERTISEMENT.—
For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘qualified political advertisement’ means
any advertisement (including search engine
marketing, display advertisements, video ad-
vertisements, native advertisements, and
sponsorships) that—
‘‘(A) is made by or on behalf of a candidate;
or
‘‘(B) communicates a message relating to
any political matter of national importance,
including—
‘‘(i) a candidate;
‘‘(ii) any election to Federal office; or
‘‘(iii) a national legislative issue of public
importance.
‘‘(5) TIME TO MAINTAIN FILE.—The informa-
tion required under this subsection shall be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2451
March 6, 2019
made available as soon as possible and shall
be retained by the online platform for a pe-
riod of not less than 4 years.
‘‘(6) SAFE HARBOR FOR PLATFORMS MAKING
BEST EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY REQUESTS WHICH
ARE SUBJECT TO RECORD MAINTENANCE RE-
QUIREMENTS.—In accordance with rules es-
tablished by the Commission, if an online
platform shows that the platform used best
efforts to determine whether or not a request
to purchase a qualified political advertise-
ment was subject to the requirements of this
subsection, the online platform shall not be
considered to be in violation of such require-
ments.
‘‘(7) PENALTIES.—For penalties for failure
by online platforms, and persons requesting
to purchase a qualified political advertise-
ment on online platforms, to comply with
the requirements of this subsection, see sec-
tion 309.’’.
(b) RULEMAKING.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Federal Election Commission shall es-
tablish rules—
(1) requiring common data formats for the
record required to be maintained under sec-
tion 304(j) of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (as added by subsection (a)) so
that all online platforms submit and main-
tain data online in a common, machine-read-
able and publicly accessible format; and
(2) establishing search interface require-
ments relating to such record, including
searches by candidate name, issue, pur-
chaser, and date; and
(3) establishing the criteria for the safe
harbor exception provided under paragraph
(6) of section 304(j) of such Act (as added by
subsection (a)).
(c) REPORTING.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and biannually thereafter, the Chairman of
the Federal Election Commission shall sub-
mit a report to Congress on—
(1) matters relating to compliance with
and the enforcement of the requirements of
section 304(j) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971, as added by subsection (a);
(2) recommendations for any modifications
to such section to assist in carrying out its
purposes; and
(3) identifying ways to bring transparency
and accountability to political advertise-
ments distributed online for free.
SEC. 4209. PREVENTING CONTRIBUTIONS, EX-
PENDITURES, INDEPENDENT EX-
PENDITURES, AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR ELECTIONEERING COMMUNICA-
TIONS BY FOREIGN NATIONALS IN
THE FORM OF ONLINE ADVER-
TISING.
Section 319 of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121), as amend-
ed by section 4101(a)(2) and section 4101(b), is
further amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(e) RESPONSIBILITIES OF BROADCAST STA-
TIONS, PROVIDERS OF CABLE AND SATELLITE
TELEVISION, AND ONLINE PLATFORMS.—Each
television or radio broadcast station, pro-
vider of cable or satellite television, or on-
line platform (as defined in section 304(j)(3))
shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that
communications described in section 318(a)
and made available by such station, pro-
vider, or platform are not purchased by a for-
eign national, directly or indirectly.’’.
Subtitle D—Stand By Every Ad
SEC. 4301. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Stand
By Every Ad Act’’.
SEC. 4302. STAND BY EVERY AD.
(a) EXPANDED DISCLAIMER REQUIREMENTS
FOR CERTAIN COMMUNICATIONS.—Section 318
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30120), as amended by section
4207(b)(1), is further amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (e) as sub-
section (f); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (d) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(e) EXPANDED DISCLAIMER REQUIREMENTS
FOR COMMUNICATIONS NOT AUTHORIZED BY
CANDIDATES OR COMMITTEES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (6), any communication described
in paragraph (3) of subsection (a) which is
transmitted in an audio or video format (in-
cluding an Internet or digital communica-
tion), or which is an Internet or digital com-
munication transmitted in a text or graphic
format, shall include, in addition to the re-
quirements of paragraph (3) of subsection (a),
the following:
‘‘(A) The individual disclosure statement
described in paragraph (2)(A) (if the person
paying for the communication is an indi-
vidual) or the organizational disclosure
statement described in paragraph (2)(B) (if
the person paying for the communication is
not an individual).
‘‘(B) If the communication is transmitted
in a video format, or is an Internet or digital
communication which is transmitted in a
text or graphic format, and is paid for in
whole or in part with a payment which is
treated as a campaign-related disbursement
under section 324—
‘‘(i) the Top Five Funders list (if applica-
ble); or
‘‘(ii) in the case of a communication which,
as determined on the basis of criteria estab-
lished in regulations issued by the Commis-
sion, is of such short duration that including
the Top Five Funders list in the communica-
tion would constitute a hardship to the per-
son paying for the communication by requir-
ing a disproportionate amount of the content
of the communication to consist of the Top
Five Funders list, the name of a website
which contains the Top Five Funders list (if
applicable) or, in the case of an Internet or
digital communication, a hyperlink to such
website.
‘‘(C) If the communication is transmitted
in an audio format and is paid for in whole
or in part with a payment which is treated as
a campaign-related disbursement under sec-
tion 324—
‘‘(i) the Top Two Funders list (if applica-
ble); or
‘‘(ii) in the case of a communication which,
as determined on the basis of criteria estab-
lished in regulations issued by the Commis-
sion, is of such short duration that including
the Top Two Funders list in the communica-
tion would constitute a hardship to the per-
son paying for the communication by requir-
ing a disproportionate amount of the content
of the communication to consist of the Top
Two Funders list, the name of a website
which contains the Top Two Funders list (if
applicable).
‘‘(2) DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS DESCRIBED.—
‘‘(A) INDIVIDUAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS.—
The individual disclosure statement de-
scribed in this subparagraph is the following:
‘I am llllllll, and I approve this
message.’, with the blank filled in with the
name of the applicable individual.
‘‘(B) ORGANIZATIONAL DISCLOSURE STATE-
MENTS.—The organizational disclosure state-
ment described in this subparagraph is the
following: ‘I am llllllll, the
llllllll of llllllll, and
llllllll approves this message.’,
with—
‘‘(i) the first blank to be filled in with the
name of the applicable individual;
‘‘(ii) the second blank to be filled in with
the title of the applicable individual; and
‘‘(iii) the third and fourth blank each to be
filled in with the name of the organization or
other person paying for the communication.
‘‘(3) METHOD OF CONVEYANCE OF STATE-
MENT.—
‘‘(A) COMMUNICATIONS IN TEXT OR GRAPHIC
FORMAT.—In the case of a communication to
which this subsection applies which is trans-
mitted in a text or graphic format, the dis-
closure statements required under paragraph
(1) shall appear in letters at least as large as
the majority of the text in the communica-
tion.
‘‘(B) COMMUNICATIONS TRANSMITTED IN
AUDIO FORMAT.—In the case of a communica-
tion to which this subsection applies which
is transmitted in an audio format, the disclo-
sure statements required under paragraph (1)
shall be made by audio by the applicable in-
dividual in a clear and conspicuous manner.
‘‘(C) COMMUNICATIONS TRANSMITTED IN
VIDEO FORMAT.—In the case of a communica-
tion to which this subsection applies which
is transmitted in a video format, the infor-
mation required under paragraph (1)—
‘‘(i) shall appear in writing at the end of
the communication or in a crawl along the
bottom of the communication in a clear and
conspicuous manner, with a reasonable de-
gree of color contrast between the back-
ground and the printed statement, for a pe-
riod of at least 6 seconds; and
‘‘(ii) shall also be conveyed by an
unobscured, full-screen view of the applica-
ble individual or by the applicable individual
making the statement in voice-over accom-
panied by a clearly identifiable photograph
or similar image of the individual, except in
the case of a Top Five Funders list.
‘‘(4) APPLICABLE INDIVIDUAL DEFINED.—The
term ‘applicable individual’ means, with re-
spect to a communication to which this sub-
section applies—
‘‘(A) if the communication is paid for by an
individual, the individual involved;
‘‘(B) if the communication is paid for by a
corporation, the chief executive officer of
the corporation (or, if the corporation does
not have a chief executive officer, the high-
est ranking official of the corporation);
‘‘(C) if the communication is paid for by a
labor organization, the highest ranking offi-
cer of the labor organization; and
‘‘(D) if the communication is paid for by
any other person, the highest ranking offi-
cial of such person.
‘‘(5) TOP FIVE FUNDERS LIST AND TOP TWO
FUNDERS LIST DEFINED.—
‘‘(A) TOP FIVE FUNDERS LIST.—The term
‘Top Five Funders list’ means, with respect
to a communication which is paid for in
whole or in part with a campaign-related dis-
bursement (as defined in section 324), a list
of the five persons who, during the 12-month
period ending on the date of the disburse-
ment, provided the largest payments of any
type in an aggregate amount equal to or ex-
ceeding $10,000 to the person who is paying
for the communication and the amount of
the payments each such person provided. If
two or more people provided the fifth largest
of such payments, the person paying for the
communication shall select one of those per-
sons to be included on the Top Five Funders
list.
‘‘(B) TOP TWO FUNDERS LIST.—The term
‘Top Two Funders list’ means, with respect
to a communication which is paid for in
whole or in part with a campaign-related dis-
bursement (as defined in section 324), a list
of the persons who, during the 12-month pe-
riod ending on the date of the disbursement,
provided the largest and the second largest
payments of any type in an aggregate
amount equal to or exceeding $10,000 to the
person who is paying for the communication
and the amount of the payments each such
person provided. If two or more persons pro-
vided the second largest of such payments,
the person paying for the communication
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2452 March 6, 2019
shall select one of those persons to be in-
cluded on the Top Two Funders list.
‘‘(C) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN PAYMENTS.—For
purposes of subparagraphs (A) and (B), in de-
termining the amount of payments made by
a person to a person paying for a commu-
nication, there shall be excluded the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(i) Any amounts provided in the ordinary
course of any trade or business conducted by
the person paying for the communication or
in the form of investments in the person pay-
ing for the communication.
‘‘(ii) Any payment which the person pro-
hibited, in writing, from being used for cam-
paign-related disbursements, but only if the
person paying for the communication agreed
to follow the prohibition and deposited the
payment in an account which is segregated
from any account used to make campaign-re-
lated disbursements.
‘‘(6) SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN COMMU-
NICATIONS.—
‘‘(A) EXCEPTION FOR COMMUNICATIONS PAID
FOR BY POLITICAL PARTIES AND CERTAIN POLIT-
ICAL COMMITTEES.—This subsection does not
apply to any communication to which sub-
section (d)(2) applies.
‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF VIDEO COMMUNICATIONS
LASTING 10 SECONDS OR LESS.—In the case of a
communication to which this subsection ap-
plies which is transmitted in a video format,
or is an Internet or digital communication
which is transmitted in a text or graphic for-
mat, the communication shall meet the fol-
lowing requirements:
‘‘(i) The communication shall include the
individual disclosure statement described in
paragraph (2)(A) (if the person paying for the
communication is an individual) or the orga-
nizational disclosure statement described in
paragraph (2)(B) (if the person paying for the
communication is not an individual).
‘‘(ii) The statement described in clause (i)
shall appear in writing at the end of the
communication, or in a crawl along the bot-
tom of the communication, in a clear and
conspicuous manner, with a reasonable de-
gree of color contrast between the back-
ground and the printed statement, for a pe-
riod of at least 4 seconds.
‘‘(iii) The communication shall include, in
a clear and conspicuous manner, a website
address with a landing page which will pro-
vide all of the information described in para-
graph (1) with respect to the communication.
Such address shall appear for the full dura-
tion of the communication.
‘‘(iv) To the extent that the format in
which the communication is made permits
the use of a hyperlink, the communication
shall include a hyperlink to the website ad-
dress described in clause (iii).’’.
(b) APPLICATION OF EXPANDED REQUIRE-
MENTS TO PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS CON-
SISTING OF CAMPAIGN-RELATED DISBURSE-
MENTS.—Section 318(a) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
30120(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘for the pur-
pose of financing communications expressly
advocating the election or defeat of a clearly
identified candidate’’ and inserting ‘‘for a
campaign-related disbursement, as defined in
section 324, consisting of a public commu-
nication’’.
(c) EXCEPTION FOR COMMUNICATIONS PAID
FOR BY POLITICAL PARTIES AND CERTAIN PO-
LITICAL COMMITTEES.—Section 318(d)(2) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 30120(d)(2)) is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘OTHERS’’
and inserting ‘‘CERTAIN POLITICAL COMMIT-
TEES’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘Any communication’’ and
inserting ‘‘(A) Any communication’’;
(3) by inserting ‘‘which (except to the ex-
tent provided in subparagraph (B)) is paid for
by a political committee (including a polit-
ical committee of a political party) and’’
after ‘‘subsection (a)’’;
(4) by striking ‘‘or other person’’ each
place it appears; and
(5) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B)(i) This paragraph does not apply to a
communication paid for in whole or in part
during a calendar year with a campaign-re-
lated disbursement, but only if the covered
organization making the campaign-related
disbursement made campaign-related dis-
bursements (as defined in section 324) aggre-
gating more than $10,000 during such cal-
endar year.
‘‘(ii) For purposes of clause (i), in deter-
mining the amount of campaign-related dis-
bursements made by a covered organization
during a year, there shall be excluded the
following:
‘‘(I) Any amounts received by the covered
organization in the ordinary course of any
trade or business conducted by the covered
organization or in the form of investments in
the covered organization.
‘‘(II) Any amounts received by the covered
organization from a person who prohibited,
in writing, the organization from using such
amounts for campaign-related disburse-
ments, but only if the covered organization
agreed to follow the prohibition and depos-
ited the amounts in an account which is seg-
regated from any account used to make cam-
paign-related disbursements.’’.
SEC. 4303. DISCLAIMER REQUIREMENTS FOR
COMMUNICATIONS MADE THROUGH
PRERECORDED TELEPHONE CALLS.
(a) APPLICATION OF REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 318(a) of the Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30120(a)), as amended by section 4205(c), is
amended by inserting after ‘‘public commu-
nication’’ each place it appears the fol-
lowing: ‘‘(including a telephone call con-
sisting in substantial part of a prerecorded
audio message)’’.
(2) APPLICATION TO COMMUNICATIONS SUB-
JECT TO EXPANDED DISCLAIMER REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Section 318(e)(1) of such Act (52
U.S.C. 30120(e)(1)), as added by section
4302(a), is amended in the matter preceding
subparagraph (A) by striking ‘‘which is
transmitted in an audio or video format’’
and inserting ‘‘which is transmitted in an
audio or video format or which consists of a
telephone call consisting in substantial part
of a prerecorded audio message’’.
(b) TREATMENT AS COMMUNICATION TRANS-
MITTED IN AUDIO FORMAT.—
(1) COMMUNICATIONS BY CANDIDATES OR AU-
THORIZED PERSONS.—Section 318(d) of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 30120(d)) is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) PRERECORDED TELEPHONE CALLS.—Any
communication described in paragraph (1),
(2), or (3) of subsection (a) (other than a com-
munication which is subject to subsection
(e)) which is a telephone call consisting in
substantial part of a prerecorded audio mes-
sage shall include, in addition to the require-
ments of such paragraph, the audio state-
ment required under subparagraph (A) of
paragraph (1) or the audio statement re-
quired under paragraph (2) (whichever is ap-
plicable), except that the statement shall be
made at the beginning of the telephone
call.’’.
(2) COMMUNICATIONS SUBJECT TO EXPANDED
DISCLAIMER REQUIREMENTS.—Section 318(e)(3)
of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30120(e)(3)), as added by
section 4302(a), is amended by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) PRERECORDED TELEPHONE CALLS.—In
the case of a communication to which this
subsection applies which is a telephone call
consisting in substantial part of a
prerecorded audio message, the communica-
tion shall be considered to be transmitted in
an audio format.’’.
SEC. 4304. NO EXPANSION OF PERSONS SUBJECT
TO DISCLAIMER REQUIREMENTS ON
INTERNET COMMUNICATIONS.
Nothing in this subtitle or the amend-
ments made by this subtitle may be con-
strued to require any person who is not re-
quired under section 318 of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 (as provided under
section 110.11 of title 11 of the Code of Fed-
eral Regulations) to include a disclaimer on
communications made by the person through
the internet to include any disclaimer on
any such communications.
SEC. 4305. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The amendments made by this subtitle
shall apply with respect to communications
made on or after January 1, 2020, and shall
take effect without regard to whether or not
the Federal Election Commission has pro-
mulgated regulations to carry out such
amendments.
Subtitle E—Secret Money Transparency
SEC. 4401. REPEAL OF RESTRICTION OF USE OF
FUNDS BY INTERNAL REVENUE
SERVICE TO BRING TRANSPARENCY
TO POLITICAL ACTIVITY OF CER-
TAIN NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Section 124 of the Financial Services and
General Government Appropriations Act,
2019 (division D of Public Law 116–6) is here-
by repealed.
SEC. 4402. REPEAL OF REVENUE PROCEDURE
THAT ELIMINATED REQUIREMENT
TO REPORT INFORMATION
REGARDNG CONTRIBUTIONS TO
CERTAIN TAX-EXEMPT ORGANIZA-
TIONS.
Revenue Procedure 2018–38 shall have no
force and effect.
Subtitle F—Shareholder Right-to-Know
SEC. 4501. REPEAL OF RESTRICTION ON USE OF
FUNDS BY SECURITIES AND EX-
CHANGE COMMISSION TO ENSURE
SHAREHOLDERS OF CORPORATIONS
HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF CORPORA-
TION POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
Section 629 of the Financial Services and
General Government Appropriations Act,
2019 (division D of Public Law 116–6) is here-
by repealed.
Subtitle G—Disclosure of Political Spending
by Government Contractors
SEC. 4601. REPEAL OF RESTRICTION ON USE OF
FUNDS TO REQUIRE DISCLOSURE OF
POLITICAL SPENDING BY GOVERN-
MENT CONTRACTORS.
Section 735 of the Financial Services and
General Government Appropriations Act,
2019 (division D of Public Law 116–6) is here-
by repealed.
Subtitle H—Limitation and Disclosure Re-
quirements for Presidential Inaugural
Committees
SEC. 4701. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Presi-
dential Inaugural Committee Oversight
Act’’.
SEC. 4702. LIMITATIONS AND DISCLOSURE OF
CERTAIN DONATIONS TO, AND DIS-
BURSEMENTS BY, INAUGURAL COM-
MITTEES.
(a) REQUIREMENTS FOR INAUGURAL COMMIT-
TEES.—Title III of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 325. INAUGURAL COMMITTEES.
‘‘(a) PROHIBITED DONATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful—
‘‘(A) for an Inaugural Committee—
‘‘(i) to solicit, accept, or receive a donation
from a person that is not an individual; or
‘‘(ii) to solicit, accept, or receive a dona-
tion from a foreign national;
‘‘(B) for a person—
‘‘(i) to make a donation to an Inaugural
Committee in the name of another person, or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2453
March 6, 2019
to knowingly authorize his or her name to be
used to effect such a donation;
‘‘(ii) to knowingly accept a donation to an
Inaugural Committee made by a person in
the name of another person; or
‘‘(iii) to convert a donation to an Inaugural
Committee to personal use as described in
paragraph (2); and
‘‘(C) for a foreign national to, directly or
indirectly, make a donation, or make an ex-
press or implied promise to make a donation,
to an Inaugural Committee.
‘‘(2) CONVERSION OF DONATION TO PERSONAL
USE.—For purposes of paragraph (1)(B)(iii), a
donation shall be considered to be converted
to personal use if any part of the donated
amount is used to fulfill a commitment, obli-
gation, or expense of a person that would
exist irrespective of the responsibilities of
the Inaugural Committee under chapter 5 of
title 36, United States Code.
‘‘(3) NO EFFECT ON DISBURSEMENT OF UNUSED
FUNDS TO NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.—Noth-
ing in this subsection may be construed to
prohibit an Inaugural Committee from dis-
bursing unused funds to an organization
which is described in section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt
from taxation under section 501(a) of such
Code.
‘‘(b) LIMITATION ON DONATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for
an individual to make donations to an Inau-
gural Committee which, in the aggregate, ex-
ceed $50,000.
‘‘(2) INDEXING.—At the beginning of each
Presidential election year (beginning with
2024), the amount described in paragraph (1)
shall be increased by the cumulative percent
difference determined in section 315(c)(1)(A)
since the previous Presidential election year.
If any amount after such increase is not a
multiple of $1,000, such amount shall be
rounded to the nearest multiple of $1,000.
‘‘(c) DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN DONATIONS
AND DISBURSEMENTS.—
‘‘(1) DONATIONS OVER $1,000.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An Inaugural Com-
mittee shall file with the Commission a re-
port disclosing any donation by an indi-
vidual to the committee in an amount of
$1,000 or more not later than 24 hours after
the receipt of such donation.
‘‘(B) CONTENTS OF REPORT.—A report filed
under subparagraph (A) shall contain—
‘‘(i) the amount of the donation;
‘‘(ii) the date the donation is received; and
‘‘(iii) the name and address of the indi-
vidual making the donation.
‘‘(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than the
date that is 90 days after the date of the
Presidential inaugural ceremony, the Inau-
gural Committee shall file with the Commis-
sion a report containing the following infor-
mation:
‘‘(A) For each donation of money or any-
thing of value made to the committee in an
aggregate amount equal to or greater than
$200—
‘‘(i) the amount of the donation;
‘‘(ii) the date the donation is received; and
‘‘(iii) the name and address of the indi-
vidual making the donation.
‘‘(B) The total amount of all disburse-
ments, and all disbursements in the fol-
lowing categories:
‘‘(i) Disbursements made to meet com-
mittee operating expenses.
‘‘(ii) Repayment of all loans.
‘‘(iii) Donation refunds and other offsets to
donations.
‘‘(iv) Any other disbursements.
‘‘(C) The name and address of each per-
son—
‘‘(i) to whom a disbursement in an aggre-
gate amount or value in excess of $200 is
made by the committee to meet a committee
operating expense, together with date,
amount, and purpose of such operating ex-
pense;
‘‘(ii) who receives a loan repayment from
the committee, together with the date and
amount of such loan repayment;
‘‘(iii) who receives a donation refund or
other offset to donations from the com-
mittee, together with the date and amount
of such disbursement; and
‘‘(iv) to whom any other disbursement in
an aggregate amount or value in excess of
$200 is made by the committee, together with
the date and amount of such disbursement.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
‘‘(1)(A) The term ‘donation’ includes—
‘‘(i) any gift, subscription, loan, advance,
or deposit of money or anything of value
made by any person to the committee; or
‘‘(ii) the payment by any person of com-
pensation for the personal services of an-
other person which are rendered to the com-
mittee without charge for any purpose.
‘‘(B) The term ‘donation’ does not include
the value of services provided without com-
pensation by any individual who volunteers
on behalf of the committee.
‘‘(2) The term ‘foreign national’ has the
meaning given that term by section 319(b).
‘‘(3) The term ‘Inaugural Committee’ has
the meaning given that term by section 501
of title 36, United States Code.’’.
(b) CONFIRMING AMENDMENT RELATED TO
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Section 304 of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30104) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (h); and
(2) by redesignating subsection (i) as sub-
section (h).
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATED TO
STATUS OF COMMITTEE.—Section 510 of title
36, United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘§ 510. Disclosure of and prohibition on cer-
tain donations
‘‘A committee shall not be considered to be
the Inaugural Committee for purposes of this
chapter unless the committee agrees to, and
meets, the requirements of section 325 of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this Act shall apply with respect to
Inaugural Committees established under
chapter 5 of title 36, United States Code, for
inaugurations held in 2021 and any suc-
ceeding year.
Subtitle I—Severability
SEC. 4801. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title or amendment
made by this title, or the application of a
provision or amendment to any person or
circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this title and amendments
made by this title, and the application of the
provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
TITLE V—CAMPAIGN FINANCE
EMPOWERMENT
Subtitle A—Findings Relating to Citizens
United Decision
Sec. 5001. Findings relating to Citizens
United decision.
Subtitle B—Congressional Elections
Sec. 5100. Short title.
PART 1—MY VOICE VOUCHER PILOT PROGRAM
Sec. 5101. Establishment of pilot program.
Sec. 5102. Voucher program described.
Sec. 5103. Reports.
Sec. 5104. Definitions.
PART 2—SMALL DOLLAR FINANCING OF
CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
Sec. 5111. Benefits and eligibility require-
ments for candidates.
‘‘TITLE V—SMALL DOLLAR FINANCING
OF CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION CAM-
PAIGNS
‘‘Subtitle A—Benefits
‘‘Sec. 501. Benefits for participating can-
didates.
‘‘Sec. 502. Procedures for making pay-
ments.
‘‘Sec. 503. Use of funds.
‘‘Sec. 504. Qualified small dollar con-
tributions described.
‘‘Subtitle B—Eligibility and Certification
‘‘Sec. 511. Eligibility.
‘‘Sec. 512. Qualifying requirements.
‘‘Sec. 513. Certification.
‘‘Subtitle C—Requirements for Candidates
Certified as Participating Candidates
‘‘Sec. 521. Contribution and expenditure
requirements.
‘‘Sec. 522. Administration of campaign.
‘‘Sec. 523. Preventing unnecessary
spending of public funds.
‘‘Sec. 524. Remitting unspent funds after
election.
‘‘Subtitle D—Enhanced Match Support
‘‘Sec. 531. Enhanced support for general
election.
‘‘Sec. 532. Eligibility.
‘‘Sec. 533. Amount.
‘‘Sec. 534. Waiver of authority to retain
portion of unspent funds after
election.
‘‘Subtitle E—Administrative Provisions
‘‘Sec. 541. Freedom From Influence
Fund.
‘‘Sec. 542. Reviews and reports by Gov-
ernment Accountability Office.
‘‘Sec. 543. Administration by Commis-
sion.
‘‘Sec. 544. Violations and penalties.
‘‘Sec. 545. Appeals process.
‘‘Sec. 546. Indexing of amounts.
‘‘Sec. 547. Election cycle defined.
Sec. 5112. Contributions and expenditures by
multicandidate and political
party committees on behalf of
participating candidates.
Sec. 5113. Prohibiting use of contributions
by participating candidates for
purposes other than campaign
for election.
Sec. 5114. Effective date.
Subtitle C—Presidential Elections
Sec. 5200. Short title.
PART 1—PRIMARY ELECTIONS
Sec. 5201. Increase in and modifications to
matching payments.
Sec. 5202. Eligibility requirements for
matching payments.
Sec. 5203. Repeal of expenditure limitations.
Sec. 5204. Period of availability of matching
payments.
Sec. 5205. Examination and audits of match-
able contributions.
Sec. 5206. Modification to limitation on con-
tributions for Presidential pri-
mary candidates.
Sec. 5207. Use of Freedom From Influence
Fund as source of payments.
PART 2—GENERAL ELECTIONS
Sec. 5211. Modification of eligibility require-
ments for public financing.
Sec. 5212. Repeal of expenditure limitations
and use of qualified campaign
contributions.
Sec. 5213. Matching payments and other
modifications to payment
amounts.
Sec. 5214. Increase in limit on coordinated
party expenditures.
Sec. 5215. Establishment of uniform date for
release of payments.
Sec. 5216. Amounts in Presidential Election
Campaign Fund.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2454 March 6, 2019
Sec. 5217. Use of general election payments
for general election legal and
accounting compliance.
Sec. 5218. Use of Freedom From Influence
Fund as source of payments.
PART 3—EFFECTIVE DATE
Sec. 5221. Effective date.
Subtitle D—Personal Use Services as
Authorized Campaign Expenditures
Sec. 5301. Short title; findings; purpose.
Sec. 5302. Treatment of payments for child
care and other personal use
services as authorized cam-
paign expenditure.
Subtitle E—Severability
Sec. 5401. Severability.
Subtitle A—Findings Relating to Citizens
United Decision
SEC. 5001. FINDINGS RELATING TO CITIZENS
UNITED DECISION.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The American Republic was founded on
the principle that all people are created
equal, with rights and responsibilities as
citizens to vote, be represented, speak, de-
bate, and participate in self-government on
equal terms regardless of wealth. To secure
these rights and responsibilities, our Con-
stitution not only protects the equal rights
of all Americans but also provides checks
and balances to prevent corruption and pre-
vent concentrated power and wealth from
undermining effective self-government.
(2) The Supreme Court’s decisions in Citi-
zens United v. Federal Election Commission, 558
U.S. 310 (2010) and McCutcheon v. FEC, 572
U.S. 185 (2014), as well as other court deci-
sions, erroneously invalidated even-handed
rules about the spending of money in local,
State, and Federal elections. These flawed
decisions have empowered large corpora-
tions, extremely wealthy individuals, and
special interests to dominate election spend-
ing, corrupt our politics, and degrade our de-
mocracy through tidal waves of unlimited
and anonymous spending. These decisions
also stand in contrast to a long history of ef-
forts by Congress and the States to regulate
money in politics to protect democracy, and
they illustrate a troubling deregulatory
trend in campaign finance-related court de-
cisions. Additionally, an unknown amount of
foreign money continues to be spent in our
political system as subsidiaries of foreign-
based corporations and hostile foreign actors
sometimes connected to nation-States work
to influence our elections.
(3) The Supreme Court’s misinterpretation
of the Constitution to empower monied in-
terests at the expense of the American peo-
ple in elections has seriously eroded over 100
years of congressional action to promote
fairness and protect elections from the toxic
influence of money.
(4) In 1907, Congress passed the Tillman
Act in response to the concentration of cor-
porate power in the post-Civil War Gilded
Age. The Act prohibited corporations from
making contributions in connection with
Federal elections, aiming ‘‘not merely to
prevent the subversion of the integrity of the
electoral process [but] . . . to sustain the ac-
tive, alert responsibility of the individual
citizen in a democracy for the wise conduct
of government’’.
(5) By 1910, Congress began passing disclo-
sure requirements and campaign expenditure
limits, and dozens of States passed corrupt
practices Acts to prohibit corporate spending
in elections. States also enacted campaign
spending limits, and some States limited the
amount that people could contribute to cam-
paigns.
(6) In 1947, the Taft-Hartley Act prohibited
corporations and unions from making cam-
paign contributions or other expenditures to
influence elections. In 1962, a Presidential
commission on election spending rec-
ommended spending limits and incentives to
increase small contributions from more peo-
ple.
(7) The Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (FECA), as amended in 1974, required
disclosure of contributions and expenditures,
imposed contribution and expenditure limits
for individuals and groups, set spending lim-
its for campaigns, candidates, and groups,
implemented a public funding system for
Presidential campaigns, and created the Fed-
eral Election Commission to oversee and en-
force the new rules.
(8) In the wake of Citizens United and other
damaging Federal court decisions, Ameri-
cans have witnessed an explosion of outside
spending in elections. Outside spending in-
creased nearly 900 percent between the 2008
and 2016 Presidential election years. Indeed,
the 2018 elections once again made clear the
overwhelming political power of wealthy
special interests, to the tune of over
$5,000,000,000. And as political entities adapt
to a post- Citizens United, post-McCutcheon
landscape, these trends are getting worse, as
evidenced by the experience in the 2018 mid-
term congressional elections, where outside
spending more than doubled from the pre-
vious midterm cycle.
(9) The torrent of money flowing into our
political system has a profound effect on the
democratic process for everyday Americans,
whose voices and policy preferences are in-
creasingly being drowned out by those of
wealthy special interests. The more cam-
paign cash from wealthy special interests
can flood our elections, the more policies
that favor those interests are reflected in the
national political agenda. When it comes to
policy preferences, our Nation’s wealthiest
tend to have fundamentally different views
than do average Americans when it comes to
issues ranging from unemployment benefits
to the minimum wage to health care cov-
erage.
(10) The Court has tied the hands of Con-
gress and the States, severely restricting
them from setting reasonable limits on cam-
paign spending. For example, the Court has
held that only the Government’s interest in
preventing quid pro quo corruption, like
bribery, or the appearance of such corrup-
tion, can justify limits on campaign con-
tributions. More broadly, the Court has se-
verely curtailed attempts to reduce the abil-
ity of the Nation’s wealthiest and most pow-
erful to skew our democracy in their favor
by buying outsized influence in our elec-
tions. Because this distortion of the Con-
stitution has prevented truly meaningful
regulation or reform of the way we finance
elections in America, a constitutional
amendment is needed to achieve a democ-
racy for all the people.
(11) Since the landmark Citizens United de-
cision, 19 States and nearly 800 municipali-
ties, including large cities like New York,
Los Angeles, Chicago, and Philadelphia, have
gone on record supporting a constitutional
amendment. Transcending political leanings
and geographic location, voters in States and
municipalities across the country that have
placed amendment questions on the ballot
have routinely supported these initiatives by
considerably large margins.
(12) At the same time millions of Ameri-
cans have signed petitions, marched, called
their Members of Congress, written letters to
the editor, and otherwise demonstrated their
public support for a constitutional amend-
ment to overturn Citizens United that will
allow Congress to reign in the outsized influ-
ence of unchecked money in politics. Dozens
of organizations, representing tens of mil-
lions of individuals, have come together in a
shared strategy of supporting such an
amendment.
(13) In order to protect the integrity of de-
mocracy and the electoral process and to en-
sure political equality for all, the Constitu-
tion should be amended so that Congress and
the States may regulate and set limits on
the raising and spending of money to influ-
ence elections and may distinguish between
natural persons and artificial entities, like
corporations, that are created by law, in-
cluding by prohibiting such artificial enti-
ties from spending money to influence elec-
tions.
Subtitle B—Congressional Elections
SEC. 5100. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Govern-
ment By the People Act of 2019’’.
PART 1—MY VOICE VOUCHER PILOT
PROGRAM
SEC. 5101. ESTABLISHMENT OF PILOT PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Federal Election
Commission (hereafter in this part referred
to as the ‘‘Commission’’) shall establish a
pilot program under which the Commission
shall select 3 eligible States to operate a
voucher pilot program which is described in
section 5102 during the program operation
period.
(b) ELIGIBILITY OF STATES.—A State is eli-
gible to be selected to operate a voucher
pilot program under this part if, not later
than 180 days after the beginning of the pro-
gram application period, the State submits
to the Commission an application con-
taining—
(1) information and assurances that the
State will operate a voucher program which
contains the elements described in section
5102(a);
(2) information and assurances that the
State will establish fraud prevention mecha-
nisms described in section 5102(b);
(3) information and assurances that the
State will establish a commission to oversee
and implement the program as described in
section 5102(c);
(4) information and assurances that the
State will carry out a public information
campaign as described in section 5102(d);
(5) information and assurances that the
State will submit reports as required under
section 5103; and
(6) such other information and assurances
as the Commission may require.
(c) SELECTION OF PARTICIPATING STATES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the beginning of the program application pe-
riod, the Commission shall select the 3
States which will operate voucher pilot pro-
grams under this part.
(2) CRITERIA.—In selecting States for the
operation of the voucher pilot programs
under this part, the Commission shall apply
such criteria and metrics as the Commission
considers appropriate to determine the abil-
ity of a State to operate the program suc-
cessfully, and shall attempt to select States
in a variety of geographic regions and with a
variety of political party preferences.
(3) NO SUPERMAJORITY REQUIRED FOR SELEC-
TION.—The selection of States by the Com-
mission under this subsection shall require
the approval of only half of the Members of
the Commission.
(d) DUTIES OF STATES DURING PROGRAM
PREPARATION PERIOD.—During the program
preparation period, each State selected to
operate a voucher pilot program under this
part shall take such actions as may be nec-
essary to ensure that the State will be ready
to operate the program during the program
operation period, and shall complete such ac-
tions not later than 90 days before the begin-
ning of the program operation period.
(e) TERMINATION.—Each voucher pilot pro-
gram under this part shall terminate as of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2455
March 6, 2019
the first day after the program operation pe-
riod.
(f) REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS.—
(1) REIMBURSEMENT.—Upon receiving the
report submitted by a State under section
5103(a) with respect to an election cycle, the
Commission shall transmit a payment to the
State in an amount equal to the reasonable
costs incurred by the State in operating the
voucher pilot program under this part during
the cycle.
(2) SOURCE OF FUNDS.—Payments to States
under the program shall be made using
amounts in the Freedom From Influence
Fund under section 541 of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 (as added by sec-
tion 5111), hereafter referred to as the
‘‘Fund’’.
(3) MANDATORY REDUCTION OF PAYMENTS IN
CASE OF INSUFFICIENT AMOUNTS IN FREEDOM
FROM INFLUENCE FUND.—
(A) ADVANCE AUDITS BY COMMISSION.—Not
later than 90 days before the first day of each
program operation period, the Commission
shall—
(i) audit the Fund to determine whether,
after first making payments to participating
candidates under title V of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 (as added by sec-
tion 5111), the amounts remaining in the
Fund will be sufficient to make payments to
States under this part in the amounts pro-
vided under this subsection; and
(ii) submit a report to Congress describing
the results of the audit.
(B) REDUCTIONS IN AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS.—
(i) AUTOMATIC REDUCTION ON PRO RATA
BASIS.—If, on the basis of the audit described
in subparagraph (A), the Commission deter-
mines that the amount anticipated to be
available in the Fund with respect to an
election cycle involved is not, or may not be,
sufficient to make payments to States under
this part in the full amount provided under
this subsection, the Commission shall reduce
each amount which would otherwise be paid
to a State under this subsection by such pro
rata amount as may be necessary to ensure
that the aggregate amount of payments an-
ticipated to be made with respect to the
cycle will not exceed the amount anticipated
to be available for such payments in the
Fund with respect to such cycle.
(ii) RESTORATION OF REDUCTIONS IN CASE OF
AVAILABILITY OF SUFFICIENT FUNDS DURING
ELECTION CYCLE.—If, after reducing the
amounts paid to States with respect to an
election cycle under clause (i), the Commis-
sion determines that there are sufficient
amounts in the Fund to restore the amount
by which such payments were reduced (or
any portion thereof), to the extent that such
amounts are available, the Commission may
make a payment on a pro rata basis to each
such State with respect to the cycle in the
amount by which such State’s payments
were reduced under clause (i) (or any portion
thereof, as the case may be).
(iii) NO USE OF AMOUNTS FROM OTHER
SOURCES.—In any case in which the Commis-
sion determines that there are insufficient
moneys in the Fund to make payments to
States under this part, moneys shall not be
made available from any other source for the
purpose of making such payments.
(4) CAP ON AMOUNT OF PAYMENT.—The ag-
gregate amount of payments made to any
State with respect to any program operation
period may not exceed $10,000,000. If the
State determines that the maximum pay-
ment amount under this paragraph with re-
spect to the program operation period in-
volved is not, or may not be, sufficient to
cover the reasonable costs incurred by the
State in operating the program under this
part for such period, the State shall reduce
the amount of the voucher provided to each
qualified individual by such pro rata amount
as may be necessary to ensure that the rea-
sonable costs incurred by the State in oper-
ating the program will not exceed the
amount paid to the State with respect to
such period.
SEC. 5102. VOUCHER PROGRAM DESCRIBED.
(a) GENERAL ELEMENTS OF PROGRAM.—
(1) ELEMENTS DESCRIBED.—The elements of
a voucher pilot program operated by a State
under this part are as follows:
(A) The State shall provide each qualified
individual upon the individual’s request with
a voucher worth $25 to be known as a ‘‘My
Voice Voucher’’ during the election cycle
which will be assigned a routing number and
which at the option of the individual will be
provided in either paper or electronic form.
(B) Using the routing number assigned to
the My Voice Voucher, the individual may
submit the My Voice Voucher in either elec-
tronic or paper form to qualified candidates
for election for the office of Representative
in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to,
the Congress and allocate such portion of the
value of the My Voice Voucher in increments
of $5 as the individual may select to any
such candidate.
(C) If the candidate transmits the My
Voice Voucher to the Commission, the Com-
mission shall pay the candidate the portion
of the value of the My Voice Voucher that
the individual allocated to the candidate,
which shall be considered a contribution by
the individual to the candidate for purposes
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971.
(2) DESIGNATION OF QUALIFIED INDIVID-
UALS.—For purposes of paragraph (1)(A), a
‘‘qualified individual’’ with respect to a
State means an individual—
(A) who is a resident of the State;
(B) who will be of voting age as of the date
of the election for the candidate to whom the
individual submits a My Voice Voucher; and
(C) who is not prohibited under Federal law
from making contributions to candidates for
election for Federal office.
(3) TREATMENT AS CONTRIBUTION TO CAN-
DIDATE.—For purposes of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971, the submission of
a My Voice Voucher to a candidate by an in-
dividual shall be treated as a contribution to
the candidate by the individual in the
amount of the portion of the value of the
Voucher that the individual allocated to the
candidate.
(b) FRAUD PREVENTION MECHANISM.—In ad-
dition to the elements described in sub-
section (a), a State operating a voucher pilot
program under this part shall permit an indi-
vidual to revoke a My Voice Voucher not
later than 2 days after submitting the My
Voice Voucher to a candidate.
(c) OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.—In addition to
the elements described in subsection (a), a
State operating a voucher pilot program
under this part shall establish a commission
or designate an existing entity to oversee
and implement the program in the State, ex-
cept that no such commission or entity may
be comprised of elected officials.
(d) PUBLIC INFORMATION CAMPAIGN.—In ad-
dition to the elements described in sub-
section (a), a State operating a voucher pilot
program under this part shall carry out a
public information campaign to disseminate
awareness of the program among qualified
individuals.
SEC. 5103. REPORTS.
(a) PRELIMINARY REPORT.—Not later than 6
months after the first election cycle of the
program operation period, a State which op-
erates a voucher pilot program under this
part shall submit a report to the Commission
analyzing the operation and effectiveness of
the program during the cycle and including
such other information as the Commission
may require.
(b) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 6
months after the end of the program oper-
ation period, the State shall submit a final
report to the Commission analyzing the op-
eration and effectiveness of the program and
including such other information as the
Commission may require.
(c) REPORT BY COMMISSION.—Not later than
the end of the first election cycle which be-
gins after the program operation period, the
Commission shall submit a report to Con-
gress which summarizes and analyzes the re-
sults of the voucher pilot program, and shall
include in the report such recommendations
as the Commission considers appropriate re-
garding the expansion of the pilot program
to all States and territories, along with such
other recommendations and other informa-
tion as the Commission considers appro-
priate.
SEC. 5104. DEFINITIONS.
(a) ELECTION CYCLE.—In this part, the term
‘‘election cycle’’ means the period beginning
on the day after the date of the most recent
regularly scheduled general election for Fed-
eral office and ending on the date of the next
regularly scheduled general election for Fed-
eral office.
(b) DEFINITIONS RELATING TO PERIODS.—In
this part, the following definitions apply:
(1) PROGRAM APPLICATION PERIOD.—The
term ‘‘program application period’’ means
the first election cycle which begins after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2) PROGRAM PREPARATION PERIOD.—The
term ‘‘program preparation period’’ means
the first election cycle which begins after
the program application period.
(3) PROGRAM OPERATION PERIOD.—The term
‘‘program operation period’’ means the first
2 election cycles which begin after the pro-
gram preparation period.
PART 2—SMALL DOLLAR FINANCING OF
CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
SEC. 5111. BENEFITS AND ELIGIBILITY REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR CANDIDATES.
The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘TITLE V—SMALL DOLLAR FINANCING OF
CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
‘‘Subtitle A—Benefits
‘‘SEC. 501. BENEFITS FOR PARTICIPATING CAN-
DIDATES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—If a candidate for elec-
tion to the office of Representative in, or
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the
Congress is certified as a participating can-
didate under this title with respect to an
election for such office, the candidate shall
be entitled to payments as provided under
this title.
‘‘(b) AMOUNT OF PAYMENT.—The amount of
a payment made under this title shall be
equal to 600 percent of the amount of quali-
fied small dollar contributions received by
the candidate since the most recent payment
made to the candidate under this title during
the election cycle, without regard to wheth-
er or not the candidate received any of the
contributions before, during, or after the
Small Dollar Democracy qualifying period
applicable to the candidate under section
511(c).
‘‘(c) LIMIT ON AGGREGATE AMOUNT OF PAY-
MENTS.—The aggregate amount of payments
made to a participating candidate with re-
spect to an election cycle under this title
may not exceed 50 percent of the average of
the 20 greatest amounts of disbursements
made by the authorized committees of any
winning candidate for the office of Rep-
resentative in, or Delegate or Resident Com-
missioner to, the Congress during the most
recent election cycle, rounded to the nearest
$100,000.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2456 March 6, 2019
‘‘SEC. 502. PROCEDURES FOR MAKING PAYMENTS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
make a payment under section 501 to a can-
didate who is certified as a participating
candidate upon receipt from the candidate of
a request for a payment which includes—
‘‘(1) a statement of the number and
amount of qualified small dollar contribu-
tions received by the candidate since the
most recent payment made to the candidate
under this title during the election cycle;
‘‘(2) a statement of the amount of the pay-
ment the candidate anticipates receiving
with respect to the request;
‘‘(3) a statement of the total amount of
payments the candidate has received under
this title as of the date of the statement; and
‘‘(4) such other information and assurances
as the Commission may require.
‘‘(b) RESTRICTIONS ON SUBMISSION OF RE-
QUESTS.—A candidate may not submit a re-
quest under subsection (a) unless each of the
following applies:
‘‘(1) The amount of the qualified small dol-
lar contributions in the statement referred
to in subsection (a)(1) is equal to or greater
than $5,000, unless the request is submitted
during the 30-day period which ends on the
date of a general election.
‘‘(2) The candidate did not receive a pay-
ment under this title during the 7-day period
which ends on the date the candidate sub-
mits the request.
‘‘(c) TIME OF PAYMENT.—The Commission
shall, in coordination with the Secretary of
the Treasury, take such steps as may be nec-
essary to ensure that the Secretary is able to
make payments under this section from the
Treasury not later than 2 business days after
the receipt of a request submitted under sub-
section (a).
‘‘SEC. 503. USE OF FUNDS.
‘‘(a) USE OF FUNDS FOR AUTHORIZED CAM-
PAIGN EXPENDITURES.—A candidate shall use
payments made under this title, including
payments provided with respect to a pre-
vious election cycle which are withheld from
remittance to the Commission in accordance
with section 524(a)(2), only for making direct
payments for the receipt of goods and serv-
ices which constitute authorized expendi-
tures (as determined in accordance with title
III) in connection with the election cycle in-
volved.
‘‘(b) PROHIBITING USE OF FUNDS FOR LEGAL
EXPENSES, FINES, OR PENALTIES.—Notwith-
standing title III, a candidate may not use
payments made under this title for the pay-
ment of expenses incurred in connection
with any action, claim, or other matter be-
fore the Commission or before any court,
hearing officer, arbitrator, or other dispute
resolution entity, or for the payment of any
fine or civil monetary penalty.
‘‘SEC. 504. QUALIFIED SMALL DOLLAR CONTRIBU-
TIONS DESCRIBED.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In this title, the term
‘qualified small dollar contribution’ means,
with respect to a candidate and the author-
ized committees of a candidate, a contribu-
tion that meets the following requirements:
‘‘(1) The contribution is in an amount that
is—
‘‘(A) not less than $1; and
‘‘(B) not more than $200.
‘‘(2)(A) The contribution is made directly
by an individual to the candidate or an au-
thorized committee of the candidate and is
not—
‘‘(i) forwarded from the individual making
the contribution to the candidate or com-
mittee by another person; or
‘‘(ii) received by the candidate or com-
mittee with the knowledge that the con-
tribution was made at the request, sugges-
tion, or recommendation of another person.
‘‘(B) In this paragraph—
‘‘(i) the term ‘person’ does not include an
individual (other than an individual de-
scribed in section 304(i)(7) of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971), a political
committee of a political party, or any polit-
ical committee which is not a separate seg-
regated fund described in section 316(b) of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
and which does not make contributions or
independent expenditures, does not engage in
lobbying activity under the Lobbying Disclo-
sure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and is
not established by, controlled by, or affili-
ated with a registered lobbyist under such
Act, an agent of a registered lobbyist under
such Act, or an organization which retains or
employs a registered lobbyist under such
Act; and
‘‘(ii) a contribution is not ‘made at the re-
quest, suggestion, or recommendation of an-
other person’ solely on the grounds that the
contribution is made in response to informa-
tion provided to the individual making the
contribution by any person, so long as the
candidate or authorized committee does not
know the identity of the person who pro-
vided the information to such individual.
‘‘(3) The individual who makes the con-
tribution does not make contributions to the
candidate or the authorized committees of
the candidate with respect to the election in-
volved in an aggregate amount that exceeds
the amount described in paragraph (1)(B), or
any contribution to the candidate or the au-
thorized committees of the candidate with
respect to the election involved that other-
wise is not a qualified small dollar contribu-
tion.
‘‘(b) TREATMENT OF MY VOICE VOUCHERS.—
Any payment received by a candidate and
the authorized committees of a candidate
which consists of a My Voice Voucher under
the Government By the People Act of 2019
shall be considered a qualified small dollar
contribution for purposes of this title, so
long as the individual making the payment
meets the requirements of paragraphs (2) and
(3) of subsection (a).
‘‘(c) RESTRICTION ON SUBSEQUENT CONTRIBU-
TIONS.—
‘‘(1) PROHIBITING DONOR FROM MAKING SUB-
SEQUENT NONQUALIFIED CONTRIBUTIONS DURING
ELECTION CYCLE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An individual who
makes a qualified small dollar contribution
to a candidate or the authorized committees
of a candidate with respect to an election
may not make any subsequent contribution
to such candidate or the authorized commit-
tees of such candidate with respect to the
election cycle which is not a qualified small
dollar contribution.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION FOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO CAN-
DIDATES WHO VOLUNTARILY WITHDRAW FROM
PARTICIPATION DURING QUALIFYING PERIOD.—
Subparagraph (A) does not apply with re-
spect to a contribution made to a candidate
who, during the Small Dollar Democracy
qualifying period described in section 511(c),
submits a statement to the Commission
under section 513(c) to voluntarily withdraw
from participating in the program under this
title.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF SUBSEQUENT NON-
QUALIFIED CONTRIBUTIONS.—If, notwith-
standing the prohibition described in para-
graph (1), an individual who makes a quali-
fied small dollar contribution to a candidate
or the authorized committees of a candidate
with respect to an election makes a subse-
quent contribution to such candidate or the
authorized committees of such candidate
with respect to the election which is prohib-
ited under paragraph (1) because it is not a
qualified small dollar contribution, the can-
didate may take one of the following actions:
‘‘(A) Not later than 2 weeks after receiving
the contribution, the candidate may return
the subsequent contribution to the indi-
vidual. In the case of a subsequent contribu-
tion which is not a qualified small dollar
contribution because the contribution fails
to meet the requirements of paragraph (3) of
subsection (a) (relating to the aggregate
amount of contributions made to the can-
didate or the authorized committees of the
candidate by the individual making the con-
tribution), the candidate may return an
amount equal to the difference between the
amount of the subsequent contribution and
the amount described in paragraph (1)(B) of
subsection (a).
‘‘(B) The candidate may retain the subse-
quent contribution, so long as not later than
2 weeks after receiving the subsequent con-
tribution, the candidate remits to the Com-
mission for deposit in the Freedom From In-
fluence Fund under section 541 an amount
equal to any payments received by the can-
didate under this title which are attributable
to the qualified small dollar contribution
made by the individual involved.
‘‘(3) NO EFFECT ON ABILITY TO MAKE MUL-
TIPLE CONTRIBUTIONS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion may be construed to prohibit an indi-
vidual from making multiple qualified small
dollar contributions to any candidate or any
number of candidates, so long as each con-
tribution meets each of the requirements of
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a).
‘‘(d) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR CAN-
DIDATES.—
‘‘(1) NOTIFICATION.—Each authorized com-
mittee of a candidate who seeks to be a par-
ticipating candidate under this title shall
provide the following information in any ma-
terials for the solicitation of contributions,
including any internet site through which
individuals may make contributions to the
committee:
‘‘(A) A statement that if the candidate is
certified as a participating candidate under
this title, the candidate will receive match-
ing payments in an amount which is based
on the total amount of qualified small dollar
contributions received.
‘‘(B) A statement that a contribution
which meets the requirements set forth in
subsection (a) shall be treated as a qualified
small dollar contribution under this title.
‘‘(C) A statement that if a contribution is
treated as qualified small dollar contribu-
tion under this title, the individual who
makes the contribution may not make any
contribution to the candidate or the author-
ized committees of the candidate during the
election cycle which is not a qualified small
dollar contribution.
‘‘(2) ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF MEETING RE-
QUIREMENTS.—An authorized committee may
meet the requirements of paragraph (1)—
‘‘(A) by including the information de-
scribed in paragraph (1) in the receipt pro-
vided under section 512(b)(3) to a person
making a qualified small dollar contribu-
tion; or
‘‘(B) by modifying the information it pro-
vides to persons making contributions which
is otherwise required under title III (includ-
ing information it provides through the
internet).
‘‘Subtitle B—Eligibility and Certification
‘‘SEC. 511. ELIGIBILITY.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A candidate for the of-
fice of Representative in, or Delegate or
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress is
eligible to be certified as a participating can-
didate under this title with respect to an
election if the candidate meets the following
requirements:
‘‘(1) The candidate files with the Commis-
sion a statement of intent to seek certifi-
cation as a participating candidate.
‘‘(2) The candidate meets the qualifying re-
quirements of section 512.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2457
March 6, 2019
‘‘(3) The candidate files with the Commis-
sion a statement certifying that the author-
ized committees of the candidate meet the
requirements of section 504(d).
‘‘(4) Not later than the last day of the
Small Dollar Democracy qualifying period,
the candidate files with the Commission an
affidavit signed by the candidate and the
treasurer of the candidate’s principal cam-
paign committee declaring that the can-
didate—
‘‘(A) has complied and, if certified, will
comply with the contribution and expendi-
ture requirements of section 521;
‘‘(B) if certified, will run only as a partici-
pating candidate for all elections for the of-
fice that such candidate is seeking during
that election cycle; and
‘‘(C) has either qualified or will take steps
to qualify under State law to be on the bal-
lot.
‘‘(b) GENERAL ELECTION.—Notwithstanding
subsection (a), a candidate shall not be eligi-
ble to be certified as a participating can-
didate under this title for a general election
or a general runoff election unless the can-
didate’s party nominated the candidate to be
placed on the ballot for the general election
or the candidate is otherwise qualified to be
on the ballot under State law.
‘‘(c) SMALL DOLLAR DEMOCRACY QUALIFYING
PERIOD DEFINED.—The term ‘Small Dollar
Democracy qualifying period’ means, with
respect to any candidate for an office, the
180-day period (during the election cycle for
such office) which begins on the date on
which the candidate files a statement of in-
tent under section 511(a)(1), except that such
period may not continue after the date that
is 30 days before the date of the general elec-
tion for the office.
‘‘SEC. 512. QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS.
‘‘(a) RECEIPT OF QUALIFIED SMALL DOLLAR
CONTRIBUTIONS.—A candidate for the office of
Representative in, or Delegate or Resident
Commissioner to, the Congress meets the re-
quirement of this section if, during the
Small Dollar Democracy qualifying period
described in section 511(c), each of the fol-
lowing occurs:
‘‘(1) Not fewer than 1,000 individuals make
a qualified small dollar contribution to the
candidate.
‘‘(2) The candidate obtains a total dollar
amount of qualified small dollar contribu-
tions which is equal to or greater than
$50,000.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO RECEIPT
OF QUALIFIED SMALL DOLLAR CONTRIBUTION.—
Each qualified small dollar contribution—
‘‘(1) may be made by means of a personal
check, money order, debit card, credit card,
electronic payment account, or any other
method deemed appropriate by the Commis-
sion;
‘‘(2) shall be accompanied by a signed
statement (or, in the case of a contribution
made online or through other electronic
means, an electronic equivalent) containing
the contributor’s name and address; and
‘‘(3) shall be acknowledged by a receipt
that is sent to the contributor with a copy
(in paper or electronic form) kept by the can-
didate for the Commission.
‘‘(c) VERIFICATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.—The
Commission shall establish procedures for
the auditing and verification of the contribu-
tions received and expenditures made by par-
ticipating candidates under this title, in-
cluding procedures for random audits, to en-
sure that such contributions and expendi-
tures meet the requirements of this title.
‘‘SEC. 513. CERTIFICATION.
‘‘(a) DEADLINE AND NOTIFICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 business
days after a candidate files an affidavit
under section 511(a)(4), the Commission
shall—
‘‘(A) determine whether or not the can-
didate meets the requirements for certifi-
cation as a participating candidate;
‘‘(B) if the Commission determines that
the candidate meets such requirements, cer-
tify the candidate as a participating can-
didate; and
‘‘(C) notify the candidate of the Commis-
sion’s determination.
‘‘(2) DEEMED CERTIFICATION FOR ALL ELEC-
TIONS IN ELECTION CYCLE.—If the Commission
certifies a candidate as a participating can-
didate with respect to the first election of
the election cycle involved, the Commission
shall be deemed to have certified the can-
didate as a participating candidate with re-
spect to all subsequent elections of the elec-
tion cycle.
‘‘(b) REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
revoke a certification under subsection (a)
if—
‘‘(A) a candidate fails to qualify to appear
on the ballot at any time after the date of
certification (other than a candidate cer-
tified as a participating candidate with re-
spect to a primary election who fails to qual-
ify to appear on the ballot for a subsequent
election in that election cycle);
‘‘(B) a candidate ceases to be a candidate
for the office involved, as determined on the
basis of an official announcement by an au-
thorized committee of the candidate or on
the basis of a reasonable determination by
the Commission; or
‘‘(C) a candidate otherwise fails to comply
with the requirements of this title, including
any regulatory requirements prescribed by
the Commission.
‘‘(2) EXISTENCE OF CRIMINAL SANCTION.—The
Commission shall revoke a certification
under subsection (a) if a penalty is assessed
against the candidate under section 309(d)
with respect to the election.
‘‘(3) EFFECT OF REVOCATION.—If a can-
didate’s certification is revoked under this
subsection—
‘‘(A) the candidate may not receive pay-
ments under this title during the remainder
of the election cycle involved; and
‘‘(B) in the case of a candidate whose cer-
tification is revoked pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) or subparagraph (C) of paragraph
(1)—
‘‘(i) the candidate shall repay to the Free-
dom From Influence Fund established under
section 541 an amount equal to the payments
received under this title with respect to the
election cycle involved plus interest (at a
rate determined by the Commission on the
basis of an appropriate annual percentage
rate for the month involved) on any such
amount received; and
‘‘(ii) the candidate may not be certified as
a participating candidate under this title
with respect to the next election cycle.
‘‘(4) PROHIBITING PARTICIPATION IN FUTURE
ELECTIONS FOR CANDIDATES WITH MULTIPLE
REVOCATIONS.—If the Commission revokes
the certification of an individual as a par-
ticipating candidate under this title pursu-
ant to subparagraph (A) or subparagraph (C)
of paragraph (1) a total of 3 times, the indi-
vidual may not be certified as a partici-
pating candidate under this title with re-
spect to any subsequent election.
‘‘(c) VOLUNTARY WITHDRAWAL FROM PAR-
TICIPATING DURING QUALIFYING PERIOD.—At
any time during the Small Dollar Democ-
racy qualifying period described in section
511(c), a candidate may withdraw from par-
ticipation in the program under this title by
submitting to the Commission a statement
of withdrawal (without regard to whether or
not the Commission has certified the can-
didate as a participating candidate under
this title as of the time the candidate sub-
mits such statement), so long as the can-
didate has not submitted a request for pay-
ment under section 502.
‘‘(d) PARTICIPATING CANDIDATE DEFINED.—
In this title, a ‘participating candidate’
means a candidate for the office of Rep-
resentative in, or Delegate or Resident Com-
missioner to, the Congress who is certified
under this section as eligible to receive bene-
fits under this title.
‘‘Subtitle C—Requirements for Candidates
Certified as Participating Candidates
‘‘SEC. 521. CONTRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE
REQUIREMENTS.
‘‘(a) PERMITTED SOURCES OF CONTRIBUTIONS
AND EXPENDITURES.—Except as provided in
subsection (c), a participating candidate
with respect to an election shall, with re-
spect to all elections occurring during the
election cycle for the office involved, accept
no contributions from any source and make
no expenditures from any amounts, other
than the following:
‘‘(1) Qualified small dollar contributions.
‘‘(2) Payments under this title.
‘‘(3) Contributions from political commit-
tees established and maintained by a na-
tional or State political party, subject to the
applicable limitations of section 315.
‘‘(4) Subject to subsection (b), personal
funds of the candidate or of any immediate
family member of the candidate (other than
funds received through qualified small dollar
contributions).
‘‘(5) Contributions from individuals who
are otherwise permitted to make contribu-
tions under this Act, subject to the applica-
ble limitations of section 315, except that the
aggregate amount of contributions a partici-
pating candidate may accept from any indi-
vidual with respect to any election during
the election cycle may not exceed $1,000.
‘‘(6) Contributions from multicandidate po-
litical committees, subject to the applicable
limitations of section 315.
‘‘(b) SPECIAL RULES FOR PERSONAL
FUNDS.—
‘‘(1) LIMIT ON AMOUNT.—A candidate who is
certified as a participating candidate may
use personal funds (including personal funds
of any immediate family member of the can-
didate) so long as—
‘‘(A) the aggregate amount used with re-
spect to the election cycle (including any pe-
riod of the cycle occurring prior to the can-
didate’s certification as a participating can-
didate) does not exceed $50,000; and
‘‘(B) the funds are used only for making di-
rect payments for the receipt of goods and
services which constitute authorized expend-
itures in connection with the election cycle
involved.
‘‘(2) IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER DEFINED.—
In this subsection, the term ‘immediate fam-
ily member’ means, with respect to a can-
didate—
‘‘(A) the candidate’s spouse;
‘‘(B) a child, stepchild, parent, grand-
parent, brother, half-brother, sister, or half-
sister of the candidate or the candidate’s
spouse; and
‘‘(C) the spouse of any person described in
subparagraph (B).
‘‘(c) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) EXCEPTION FOR CONTRIBUTIONS RE-
CEIVED PRIOR TO FILING OF STATEMENT OF IN-
TENT.—A candidate who has accepted con-
tributions that are not described in sub-
section (a) is not in violation of subsection
(a), but only if all such contributions are—
‘‘(A) returned to the contributor;
‘‘(B) submitted to the Commission for de-
posit in the Freedom From Influence Fund
established under section 541; or
‘‘(C) spent in accordance with paragraph
(2).
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION FOR EXPENDITURES MADE
PRIOR TO FILING OF STATEMENT OF INTENT.—If
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2458 March 6, 2019
a candidate has made expenditures prior to
the date the candidate files a statement of
intent under section 511(a)(1) that the can-
didate is prohibited from making under sub-
section (a) or subsection (b), the candidate is
not in violation of such subsection if the ag-
gregate amount of the prohibited expendi-
tures is less than the amount referred to in
section 512(a)(2) (relating to the total dollar
amount of qualified small dollar contribu-
tions which the candidate is required to ob-
tain) which is applicable to the candidate.
‘‘(3) EXCEPTION FOR CAMPAIGN SURPLUSES
FROM A PREVIOUS ELECTION.—Notwith-
standing paragraph (1), unexpended contribu-
tions received by the candidate or an author-
ized committee of the candidate with respect
to a previous election may be retained, but
only if the candidate places the funds in es-
crow and refrains from raising additional
funds for or spending funds from that ac-
count during the election cycle in which a
candidate is a participating candidate.
‘‘(4) EXCEPTION FOR CONTRIBUTIONS RE-
CEIVED BEFORE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS
TITLE.—Contributions received and expendi-
tures made by the candidate or an author-
ized committee of the candidate prior to the
effective date of this title shall not con-
stitute a violation of subsection (a) or (b).
Unexpended contributions shall be treated
the same as campaign surpluses under para-
graph (3), and expenditures made shall count
against the limit in paragraph (2).
‘‘(d) SPECIAL RULE FOR COORDINATED PARTY
EXPENDITURES.—For purposes of this section,
a payment made by a political party in co-
ordination with a participating candidate
shall not be treated as a contribution to or
as an expenditure made by the participating
candidate.
‘‘(e) PROHIBITION ON JOINT FUNDRAISING
COMMITTEES.—
‘‘(1) PROHIBITION.—An authorized com-
mittee of a candidate who is certified as a
participating candidate under this title with
respect to an election may not establish a
joint fundraising committee with a political
committee other than another authorized
committee of the candidate.
‘‘(2) STATUS OF EXISTING COMMITTEES FOR
PRIOR ELECTIONS.—If a candidate established
a joint fundraising committee described in
paragraph (1) with respect to a prior election
for which the candidate was not certified as
a participating candidate under this title
and the candidate does not terminate the
committee, the candidate shall not be con-
sidered to be in violation of paragraph (1) so
long as that joint fundraising committee
does not receive any contributions or make
any disbursements during the election cycle
for which the candidate is certified as a par-
ticipating candidate under this title.
‘‘(f) PROHIBITION ON LEADERSHIP PACS.—
‘‘(1) PROHIBITION.—A candidate who is cer-
tified as a participating candidate under this
title with respect to an election may not as-
sociate with, establish, finance, maintain, or
control a leadership PAC.
‘‘(2) STATUS OF EXISTING LEADERSHIP
PACS.—If a candidate established, financed,
maintained, or controlled a leadership PAC
prior to being certified as a participating
candidate under this title and the candidate
does not terminate the leadership PAC, the
candidate shall not be considered to be in
violation of paragraph (1) so long as the lead-
ership PAC does not receive any contribu-
tions or make any disbursements during the
election cycle for which the candidate is cer-
tified as a participating candidate under this
title.
‘‘(3) LEADERSHIP PAC DEFINED.—In this sub-
section, the term ‘leadership PAC’ has the
meaning given such term in section
304(i)(8)(B).
‘‘SEC. 522. ADMINISTRATION OF CAMPAIGN.
‘‘(a) SEPARATE ACCOUNTING FOR VARIOUS
PERMITTED CONTRIBUTIONS.—Each authorized
committee of a candidate certified as a par-
ticipating candidate under this title—
‘‘(1) shall provide for separate accounting
of each type of contribution described in sec-
tion 521(a) which is received by the com-
mittee; and
‘‘(2) shall provide for separate accounting
for the payments received under this title.
‘‘(b) ENHANCED DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
ON DONORS.—
‘‘(1) MANDATORY IDENTIFICATION OF INDIVID-
UALS MAKING QUALIFIED SMALL DOLLAR CON-
TRIBUTIONS.—Each authorized committee of
a participating candidate under this title
shall elect, in accordance with section
304(b)(3)(A), to include in the reports the
committee submits under section 304 the
identification of each person who makes a
qualified small dollar contribution to the
committee.
‘‘(2) MANDATORY DISCLOSURE THROUGH
INTERNET.—Each authorized committee of a
participating candidate under this title shall
ensure that all information reported to the
Commission under this Act with respect to
contributions and expenditures of the com-
mittee is available to the public on the
internet (whether through a site established
for purposes of this subsection, a hyperlink
on another public site of the committee, or a
hyperlink on a report filed electronically
with the Commission) in a searchable, sort-
able, and downloadable manner.
‘‘SEC. 523. PREVENTING UNNECESSARY SPEND-
ING OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
‘‘(a) MANDATORY SPENDING OF AVAILABLE
PRIVATE FUNDS.—An authorized committee
of a candidate certified as a participating
candidate under this title may not make any
expenditure of any payments received under
this title in any amount unless the com-
mittee has made an expenditure in an equiv-
alent amount of funds received by the com-
mittee which are described in paragraphs (1),
(3), (4), (5), and (6) of section 521(a).
‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—Subsection (a) applies to
an authorized committee only to the extent
that the funds referred to in such subsection
are available to the committee at the time
the committee makes an expenditure of a
payment received under this title.
‘‘SEC. 524. REMITTING UNSPENT FUNDS AFTER
ELECTION.
‘‘(a) REMITTANCE REQUIRED.—Not later
than the date that is 180 days after the last
election for which a candidate certified as a
participating candidate qualifies to be on the
ballot during the election cycle involved,
such participating candidate shall remit to
the Commission for deposit in the Freedom
From Influence Fund established under sec-
tion 541 an amount equal to the balance of
the payments received under this title by the
authorized committees of the candidate
which remain unexpended as of such date.
‘‘(b) PERMITTING CANDIDATES PARTICI-
PATING IN NEXT ELECTION CYCLE TO RETAIN
PORTION OF UNSPENT FUNDS.—Notwith-
standing subsection (a), a participating can-
didate may withhold not more than $100,000
from the amount required to be remitted
under subsection (a) if the candidate files a
signed affidavit with the Commission that
the candidate will seek certification as a
participating candidate with respect to the
next election cycle, except that the can-
didate may not use any portion of the
amount withheld until the candidate is cer-
tified as a participating candidate with re-
spect to that next election cycle. If the can-
didate fails to seek certification as a partici-
pating candidate prior to the last day of the
Small Dollar Democracy qualifying period
for the next election cycle (as described in
section 511), or if the Commission notifies
the candidate of the Commission’s deter-
mination does not meet the requirements for
certification as a participating candidate
with respect to such cycle, the candidate
shall immediately remit to the Commission
the amount withheld.
‘‘Subtitle D—Enhanced Match Support
‘‘SEC. 531. ENHANCED SUPPORT FOR GENERAL
ELECTION.
‘‘(a) AVAILABILITY OF ENHANCED SUPPORT.—
In addition to the payments made under sub-
title A, the Commission shall make an addi-
tional payment to an eligible candidate
under this subtitle.
‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—A candidate shall use
the additional payment under this subtitle
only for authorized expenditures in connec-
tion with the election involved.
‘‘SEC. 532. ELIGIBILITY.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A candidate is eligible
to receive an additional payment under this
subtitle if the candidate meets each of the
following requirements:
‘‘(1) The candidate is on the ballot for the
general election for the office the candidate
seeks.
‘‘(2) The candidate is certified as a partici-
pating candidate under this title with re-
spect to the election.
‘‘(3) During the enhanced support quali-
fying period, the candidate receives qualified
small dollar contributions in a total amount
of not less than $50,000.
‘‘(4) During the enhanced support quali-
fying period, the candidate submits to the
Commission a request for the payment which
includes—
‘‘(A) a statement of the number and
amount of qualified small dollar contribu-
tions received by the candidate during the
enhanced support qualifying period;
‘‘(B) a statement of the amount of the pay-
ment the candidate anticipates receiving
with respect to the request; and
‘‘(C) such other information and assur-
ances as the Commission may require.
‘‘(5) After submitting a request for the ad-
ditional payment under paragraph (4), the
candidate does not submit any other applica-
tion for an additional payment under this
subtitle.
‘‘(b) ENHANCED SUPPORT QUALIFYING PE-
RIOD DESCRIBED.—In this subtitle, the term
‘enhanced support qualifying period’ means,
with respect to a general election, the period
which begins 60 days before the date of the
election and ends 14 days before the date of
the election.
‘‘SEC. 533. AMOUNT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection
(b), the amount of the additional payment
made to an eligible candidate under this sub-
title shall be an amount equal to 50 percent
of—
‘‘(1) the amount of the payment made to
the candidate under section 501(b) with re-
spect to the qualified small dollar contribu-
tions which are received by the candidate
during the enhanced support qualifying pe-
riod (as included in the request submitted by
the candidate under section 532(a)(4)); or
‘‘(2) in the case of a candidate who is not
eligible to receive a payment under section
501(b) with respect to such qualified small
dollar contributions because the candidate
has reached the limit on the aggregate
amount of payments under subtitle A for the
election cycle under section 501(c), the
amount of the payment which would have
been made to the candidate under section
501(b) with respect to such qualified small
dollar contributions if the candidate had not
reached such limit.
‘‘(b) LIMIT.—The amount of the additional
payment determined under subsection (a)
with respect to a candidate may not exceed
$500,000.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2459
March 6, 2019
‘‘(c) NO EFFECT ON AGGREGATE LIMIT.—The
amount of the additional payment made to a
candidate under this subtitle shall not be in-
cluded in determining the aggregate amount
of payments made to a participating can-
didate with respect to an election cycle
under section 501(c).
‘‘SEC. 534. WAIVER OF AUTHORITY TO RETAIN
PORTION OF UNSPENT FUNDS
AFTER ELECTION.
‘‘Notwithstanding section 524(a)(2), a can-
didate who receives an additional payment
under this subtitle with respect to an elec-
tion is not permitted to withhold any por-
tion from the amount of unspent funds the
candidate is required to remit to the Com-
mission under section 524(a)(1).
‘‘Subtitle E—Administrative Provisions
‘‘SEC. 541. FREEDOM FROM INFLUENCE FUND.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Treasury a fund to be known as the
‘Freedom From Influence Fund’.
‘‘(b) AMOUNTS HELD BY FUND.—The Fund
shall consist of the following amounts:
‘‘(1) ASSESSMENTS AGAINST FINES, SETTLE-
MENTS, AND PENALTIES.—Amounts trans-
ferred under section 3015 of title 18, United
States Code, section 9707 of title 31, United
States Code, and section 6761 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986.
‘‘(2) DEPOSITS.—Amounts deposited into
the Fund under—
‘‘(A) section 521(c)(1)(B) (relating to excep-
tions to contribution requirements);
‘‘(B) section 523 (relating to remittance of
unused payments from the Fund); and
‘‘(C) section 544 (relating to violations).
‘‘(3) INVESTMENT RETURNS.—Interest on,
and the proceeds from, the sale or redemp-
tion of any obligations held by the Fund
under subsection (c).
‘‘(c) INVESTMENT.—The Commission shall
invest portions of the Fund in obligations of
the United States in the same manner as
provided under section 9602(b) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986.
‘‘(d) USE OF FUND TO MAKE PAYMENTS TO
PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES.—
‘‘(1) PAYMENTS TO PARTICIPATING CAN-
DIDATES.—Amounts in the Fund shall be
available without further appropriation or
fiscal year limitation to make payments to
participating candidates as provided in this
title.
‘‘(2) MANDATORY REDUCTION OF PAYMENTS IN
CASE OF INSUFFICIENT AMOUNTS IN FUND.—
‘‘(A) ADVANCE AUDITS BY COMMISSION.—Not
later than 90 days before the first day of each
election cycle (beginning with the first elec-
tion cycle that begins after the date of the
enactment of this title), the Commission
shall—
‘‘(i) audit the Fund to determine whether
the amounts in the Fund will be sufficient to
make payments to participating candidates
in the amounts provided in this title during
such election cycle; and
‘‘(ii) submit a report to Congress describ-
ing the results of the audit.
‘‘(B) REDUCTIONS IN AMOUNT OF PAY-
MENTS.—
‘‘(i) AUTOMATIC REDUCTION ON PRO RATA
BASIS.—If, on the basis of the audit described
in subparagraph (A), the Commission deter-
mines that the amount anticipated to be
available in the Fund with respect to the
election cycle involved is not, or may not be,
sufficient to satisfy the full entitlements of
participating candidates to payments under
this title for such election cycle, the Com-
mission shall reduce each amount which
would otherwise be paid to a participating
candidate under this title by such pro rata
amount as may be necessary to ensure that
the aggregate amount of payments antici-
pated to be made with respect to the election
cycle will not exceed the amount anticipated
to be available for such payments in the
Fund with respect to such election cycle.
‘‘(ii) RESTORATION OF REDUCTIONS IN CASE
OF AVAILABILITY OF SUFFICIENT FUNDS DURING
ELECTION CYCLE.—If, after reducing the
amounts paid to participating candidates
with respect to an election cycle under
clause (i), the Commission determines that
there are sufficient amounts in the Fund to
restore the amount by which such payments
were reduced (or any portion thereof), to the
extent that such amounts are available, the
Commission may make a payment on a pro
rata basis to each such participating can-
didate with respect to the election cycle in
the amount by which such candidate’s pay-
ments were reduced under clause (i) (or any
portion thereof, as the case may be).
‘‘(iii) NO USE OF AMOUNTS FROM OTHER
SOURCES.—In any case in which the Commis-
sion determines that there are insufficient
moneys in the Fund to make payments to
participating candidates under this title,
moneys shall not be made available from any
other source for the purpose of making such
payments.
‘‘(e) USE OF FUND TO MAKE OTHER PAY-
MENTS.—In addition to the use described in
subsection (d), amounts in the Fund shall be
available without further appropriation or
fiscal year limitation—
‘‘(1) to make payments to States under the
My Voice Voucher Program under the Gov-
ernment By the People Act of 2019, subject to
reductions under section 5101(f)(3) of such
Act;
‘‘(2) to make payments to candidates under
chapter 95 of subtitle H of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986, subject to reductions
under section 9013(b) of such Code; and
‘‘(3) to make payments to candidates under
chapter 96 of subtitle H of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986, subject to reductions
under section 9043(b) of such Code.
‘‘(f) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall
take effect on the date of the enactment of
this title.
‘‘SEC. 542. REVIEWS AND REPORTS BY GOVERN-
MENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE.
‘‘(a) REVIEW OF SMALL DOLLAR FINANC-
ING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—After each regularly
scheduled general election for Federal office,
the Comptroller General of the United States
shall conduct a comprehensive review of the
Small Dollar financing program under this
title, including—
‘‘(A) the maximum and minimum dollar
amounts of qualified small dollar contribu-
tions under section 504;
‘‘(B) the number and value of qualified
small dollar contributions a candidate is re-
quired to obtain under section 512(a) to be el-
igible for certification as a participating
candidate;
‘‘(C) the maximum amount of payments a
candidate may receive under this title;
‘‘(D) the overall satisfaction of partici-
pating candidates and the American public
with the program; and
‘‘(E) such other matters relating to financ-
ing of campaigns as the Comptroller General
determines are appropriate.
‘‘(2) CRITERIA FOR REVIEW.—In conducting
the review under subparagraph (A), the
Comptroller General shall consider the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) QUALIFIED SMALL DOLLAR CONTRIBU-
TIONS.—Whether the number and dollar
amounts of qualified small dollar contribu-
tions required strikes an appropriate balance
regarding the importance of voter involve-
ment, the need to assure adequate incentives
for participating, and fiscal responsibility,
taking into consideration the number of pri-
mary and general election participating can-
didates, the electoral performance of those
candidates, program cost, and any other in-
formation the Comptroller General deter-
mines is appropriate.
‘‘(B) REVIEW OF PAYMENT LEVELS.—Whether
the totality of the amount of funds allowed
to be raised by participating candidates (in-
cluding through qualified small dollar con-
tributions) and payments under this title are
sufficient for voters in each State to learn
about the candidates to cast an informed
vote, taking into account the historic
amount of spending by winning candidates,
media costs, primary election dates, and any
other information the Comptroller General
determines is appropriate.
‘‘(3) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ADJUSTMENT OF
AMOUNTS.—Based on the review conducted
under subparagraph (A), the Comptroller
General may recommend to Congress adjust-
ments of the following amounts:
‘‘(A) The number and value of qualified
small dollar contributions a candidate is re-
quired to obtain under section 512(a) to be el-
igible for certification as a participating
candidate.
‘‘(B) The maximum amount of payments a
candidate may receive under this title.
‘‘(b) REPORTS.—Not later than each June 1
which follows a regularly scheduled general
election for Federal office for which pay-
ments were made under this title, the Comp-
troller General shall submit to the Com-
mittee on House Administration of the
House of Representatives a report—
‘‘(1) containing an analysis of the review
conducted under subsection (a), including a
detailed statement of Comptroller General’s
findings, conclusions, and recommendations
based on such review, including any rec-
ommendations for adjustments of amounts
described in subsection (a)(3); and
‘‘(2) documenting, evaluating, and making
recommendations relating to the adminis-
trative implementation and enforcement of
the provisions of this title.
‘‘(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as are necessary to carry out the pur-
poses of this section.
‘‘SEC. 543. ADMINISTRATION BY COMMISSION.
‘‘The Commission shall prescribe regula-
tions to carry out the purposes of this title,
including regulations to establish procedures
for—
‘‘(1) verifying the amount of qualified
small dollar contributions with respect to a
candidate;
‘‘(2) effectively and efficiently monitoring
and enforcing the limits on the raising of
qualified small dollar contributions;
‘‘(3) effectively and efficiently monitoring
and enforcing the limits on the use of per-
sonal funds by participating candidates; and
‘‘(4) monitoring the use of allocations from
the Freedom From Influence Fund estab-
lished under section 541 and matching con-
tributions under this title through audits of
not fewer than 1⁄10 (or, in the case of the first
3 election cycles during which the program
under this title is in effect, not fewer than
1⁄3) of all participating candidates or other
mechanisms.
‘‘SEC. 544. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
‘‘(a) CIVIL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CON-
TRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE REQUIRE-
MENTS.—If a candidate who has been cer-
tified as a participating candidate accepts a
contribution or makes an expenditure that is
prohibited under section 521, the Commission
may assess a civil penalty against the can-
didate in an amount that is not more than 3
times the amount of the contribution or ex-
penditure. Any amounts collected under this
subsection shall be deposited into the Free-
dom From Influence Fund established under
section 541.
‘‘(b) REPAYMENT FOR IMPROPER USE OF
FREEDOM FROM INFLUENCE FUND.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Commission deter-
mines that any payment made to a partici-
pating candidate was not used as provided
for in this title or that a participating can-
didate has violated any of the dates for re-
mission of funds contained in this title, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2460 March 6, 2019
Commission shall so notify the candidate
and the candidate shall pay to the Fund an
amount equal to—
‘‘(A) the amount of payments so used or
not remitted, as appropriate; and
‘‘(B) interest on any such amounts (at a
rate determined by the Commission).
‘‘(2) OTHER ACTION NOT PRECLUDED.—Any
action by the Commission in accordance
with this subsection shall not preclude en-
forcement proceedings by the Commission in
accordance with section 309(a), including a
referral by the Commission to the Attorney
General in the case of an apparent knowing
and willful violation of this title.
‘‘(c) PROHIBITING CANDIDATES SUBJECT TO
CRIMINAL PENALTY FROM QUALIFYING AS PAR-
TICIPATING CANDIDATES.—A candidate is not
eligible to be certified as a participating can-
didate under this title with respect to an
election if a penalty has been assessed
against the candidate under section 309(d)
with respect to any previous election.
‘‘SEC. 545. APPEALS PROCESS.
‘‘(a) REVIEW OF ACTIONS.—Any action by
the Commission in carrying out this title
shall be subject to review by the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia upon petition filed in the Court
not later than 30 days after the Commission
takes the action for which the review is
sought.
‘‘(b) PROCEDURES.—The provisions of chap-
ter 7 of title 5, United States Code, apply to
judicial review under this section.
‘‘SEC. 546. INDEXING OF AMOUNTS.
‘‘(a) INDEXING.—In any calendar year after
2024, section 315(c)(1)(B) shall apply to each
amount described in subsection (b) in the
same manner as such section applies to the
limitations established under subsections
(a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), (a)(3), and (h) of such sec-
tion, except that for purposes of applying
such section to the amounts described in
subsection (b), the ‘base period’ shall be 2024.
‘‘(b) AMOUNTS DESCRIBED.—The amounts
described in this subsection are as follows:
‘‘(1) The amount referred to in section
502(b)(1) (relating to the minimum amount of
qualified small dollar contributions included
in a request for payment).
‘‘(2) The amounts referred to in section
504(a)(1) (relating to the amount of a quali-
fied small dollar contribution).
‘‘(3) The amount referred to in section
512(a)(2) (relating to the total dollar amount
of qualified small dollar contributions).
‘‘(4) The amount referred to in section
521(a)(5) (relating to the aggregate amount of
contributions a participating candidate may
accept from any individual with respect to
an election).
‘‘(5) The amount referred to in section
521(b)(1)(A) (relating to the amount of per-
sonal funds that may be used by a candidate
who is certified as a participating can-
didate).
‘‘(6) The amounts referred to in section
524(a)(2) (relating to the amount of unspent
funds a candidate may retain for use in the
next election cycle).
‘‘(7) The amount referred to in section
532(a)(3) (relating to the total dollar amount
of qualified small dollar contributions for a
candidate seeking an additional payment
under subtitle D).
‘‘(8) The amount referred to in section
533(b) (relating to the limit on the amount of
an additional payment made to a candidate
under subtitle D).
‘‘SEC. 547. ELECTION CYCLE DEFINED.
‘‘In this title, the term ‘election cycle’
means, with respect to an election for an of-
fice, the period beginning on the day after
the date of the most recent general election
for that office (or, if the general election re-
sulted in a runoff election, the date of the
runoff election) and ending on the date of the
next general election for that office (or, if
the general election resulted in a runoff elec-
tion, the date of the runoff election).’’.
SEC. 5112. CONTRIBUTIONS AND EXPENDITURES
BY MULTICANDIDATE AND POLIT-
ICAL PARTY COMMITTEES ON BE-
HALF OF PARTICIPATING CAN-
DIDATES.
(a) AUTHORIZING CONTRIBUTIONS ONLY FROM
SEPARATE ACCOUNTS CONSISTING OF QUALI-
FIED SMALL DOLLAR CONTRIBUTIONS.—Section
315(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30116(a)) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(10) In the case of a multicandidate polit-
ical committee or any political committee of
a political party, the committee may make a
contribution to a candidate who is a partici-
pating candidate under title V with respect
to an election only if the contribution is paid
from a separate, segregated account of the
committee which consists solely of contribu-
tions which meet the following require-
ments:
‘‘(A) Each such contribution is in an
amount which meets the requirements for
the amount of a qualified small dollar con-
tribution under section 504(a)(1) with respect
to the election involved.
‘‘(B) Each such contribution is made by an
individual who is not otherwise prohibited
from making a contribution under this Act.
‘‘(C) The individual who makes the con-
tribution does not make contributions to the
committee during the year in an aggregate
amount that exceeds the limit described in
section 504(a)(1).’’.
(b) PERMITTING UNLIMITED COORDINATED
EXPENDITURES FROM SMALL DOLLAR SOURCES
BY POLITICAL PARTIES.—Section 315(d) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 30116(d)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘The na-
tional committee’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as
provided in paragraph (6), the national com-
mittee’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(6) The limits described in paragraph (3)
do not apply in the case of expenditures in
connection with the general election cam-
paign of a candidate for the office of Rep-
resentative in, or Delegate or Resident Com-
missioner to, the Congress who is a partici-
pating candidate under title V with respect
to the election, but only if—
‘‘(A) the expenditures are paid from a sepa-
rate, segregated account of the committee
which is described in subsection (a)(9); and
‘‘(B) the expenditures are the sole source of
funding provided by the committee to the
candidate.’’.
SEC. 5113. PROHIBITING USE OF CONTRIBUTIONS
BY PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES
FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN CAM-
PAIGN FOR ELECTION.
Section 313 of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30114) is amended
by adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(d) RESTRICTIONS ON PERMITTED USES OF
FUNDS BY CANDIDATES RECEIVING SMALL DOL-
LAR FINANCING.—Notwithstanding paragraph
(2), (3), or (4) of subsection (a), if a candidate
for election for the office of Representative
in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to,
the Congress is certified as a participating
candidate under title V with respect to the
election, any contribution which the can-
didate is permitted to accept under such
title may be used only for authorized expend-
itures in connection with the candidate’s
campaign for such office, subject to section
503(b).’’.
SEC. 5114. ASSESSMENTS AGAINST FINES AND
PENALTIES.
(a) ASSESSMENTS RELATING TO CRIMINAL
OFFENSES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 201 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 3015. Special assessments for Freedom
From Influence Fund
‘‘(a) ASSESSMENTS.—
‘‘(1) CONVICTIONS OF CRIMES.—In addition to
any assessment imposed under this chapter,
the court shall assess on any organizational
defendant or any defendant who is a cor-
porate officer or person with equivalent au-
thority in any other organization who is con-
victed of a criminal offense under Federal
law an amount equal to 2.75 percent of any
fine imposed on that defendant in the sen-
tence imposed for that conviction.
‘‘(2) SETTLEMENTS.—The court shall assess
on any organizational defendant or defend-
ant who is a corporate officer or person with
equivalent authority in any other organiza-
tion who has entered into a settlement
agreement or consent decree with the United
States in satisfaction of any allegation that
the defendant committed a criminal offense
under Federal law an amount equal to 2.75
percent of the amount of the settlement.
‘‘(b) MANNER OF COLLECTION.—An amount
assessed under subsection (a) shall be col-
lected in the manner in which fines are col-
lected in criminal cases.
‘‘(c) TRANSFERS.—In a manner consistent
with section 3302(b) of title 31, there shall be
transferred from the General Fund of the
Treasury to the Freedom From Influence
Fund under section 541 of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 an amount equal
to the amount of the assessments collected
under this section.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections of chapter 201 of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘3015. Special assessments for Freedom From
Influence Fund.’’.
(b) ASSESSMENTS RELATING TO CIVIL PEN-
ALTIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 97 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 9707. Special assessments for Freedom
From Influence Fund
‘‘(a) ASSESSMENTS.—
‘‘(1) CIVIL PENALTIES.—Any entity of the
Federal Government which is authorized
under any law, rule, or regulation to impose
a civil penalty shall assess on each person,
other than a natural person who is not a cor-
porate officer or person with equivalent au-
thority in any other organization, on whom
such a penalty is imposed an amount equal
to 2.75 percent of the amount of the penalty.
‘‘(2) ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.—Any enti-
ty of the Federal Government which is au-
thorized under any law, rule, or regulation
to impose an administrative penalty shall
assess on each person, other than a natural
person who is not a corporate officer or per-
son with equivalent authority in any other
organization, on whom such a penalty is im-
posed an amount equal to 2.75 percent of the
amount of the penalty.
‘‘(3) SETTLEMENTS.—Any entity of the Fed-
eral Government which is authorized under
any law, rule, or regulation to enter into a
settlement agreement or consent decree with
any person, other than a natural person who
is not a corporate officer or person with
equivalent authority in any other organiza-
tion, in satisfaction of any allegation of an
action or omission by the person which
would be subject to a civil penalty or admin-
istrative penalty shall assess on such person
an amount equal to 2.75 percent of the
amount of the settlement.
‘‘(b) MANNER OF COLLECTION.—An amount
assessed under subsection (a) shall be col-
lected—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2461
March 6, 2019
‘‘(1) in the case of an amount assessed
under paragraph (1) of such subsection, in
the manner in which civil penalties are col-
lected by the entity of the Federal Govern-
ment involved; and
‘‘(2) in the case of an amount assessed
under paragraph (2) of such subsection, in
the manner in which administrative pen-
alties are collected by the entity of the Fed-
eral Government involved.
‘‘(3) in the case of an amount assessed
under paragraph (3) of such subsection, in
the manner in which amounts are collected
pursuant to settlement agreements or con-
sent decrees entered into by the entity of the
Federal Government involved;
‘‘(c) TRANSFERS.—In a manner consistent
with section 3302(b) of this title, there shall
be transferred from the General Fund of the
Treasury to the Freedom From Influence
Fund under section 541 of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 an amount equal
to the amount of the assessments collected
under this section.
‘‘(d) EXCEPTION FOR PENALTIES AND SETTLE-
MENTS UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE INTERNAL
REVENUE CODE OF 1986.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—No assessment shall be
made under subsection (a) with respect to
any civil or administrative penalty imposed,
or any settlement agreement or consent de-
cree entered into, under the authority of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
‘‘(2) CROSS REFERENCE.—For application of
special assessments for the Freedom From
Influence Fund with respect to certain pen-
alties under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, see section 6761 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections of chapter 97 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘9707. Special assessments for Freedom From
Influence Fund.’’.
(c) ASSESSMENTS RELATING TO CERTAIN
PENALTIES UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE
CODE OF 1986.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 68 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding
at the end the following new subchapter:
‘‘Subchapter D—Special Assessments for
Freedom From Influence Fund
‘‘SEC. 6761. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR FREE-
DOM FROM INFLUENCE FUND.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Each person required to
pay a covered penalty shall pay an addi-
tional amount equal to 2.75 percent of the
amount of such penalty.
‘‘(b) COVERED PENALTY.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘covered penalty’
means any addition to tax, additional
amount, penalty, or other liability provided
under subchapter A or B.
‘‘(c) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a taxpayer
who is an individual, subsection (a) shall not
apply to any covered penalty if such tax-
payer is an exempt taxpayer for the taxable
year for which such covered penalty is as-
sessed.
‘‘(2) EXEMPT TAXPAYER.—For purposes of
ths subsection, a taxpayer is an exempt tax-
payer for any taxable year if the taxable in-
come of such taxpayer for such taxable year
does not exceed the dollar amount at which
begins the highest rate bracket in effect
under section 1 with respect to such tax-
payer for such taxable year.
‘‘(d) APPLICATION OF CERTAIN RULES.—Ex-
cept as provided in subsection (e), the addi-
tional amount determined under subsection
(a) shall be treated for purposes of this title
in the same manner as the covered penalty
to which such additional amount relates.
‘‘(e) TRANSFER TO FREEDOM FROM INFLU-
ENCE FUND.—The Secretary shall deposit any
additional amount under subsection (a) in
the General Fund of the Treasury and shall
transfer from such General Fund to the Free-
dom From Influence Fund established under
section 541 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 an amount equal to the amounts
so deposited (and, notwithstanding sub-
section (d), such additional amount shall not
be the basis for any deposit, transfer, credit,
appropriation, or any other payment, to any
other trust fund or account). Rules similar
to the rules of section 9601 shall apply for
purposes of this subsection.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
subchapters for chapter 68 of such Code is
amended by adding at the end the following
new item:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER D—SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR
FREEDOM FROM INFLUENCE FUND’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the amendments made by this
section shall apply with respect to convic-
tions, agreements, and penalties which occur
on or after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(2) ASSESSMENTS RELATING TO CERTAIN PEN-
ALTIES UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF
1986.—The amendments made by subsection
(c) shall apply to covered penalties assessed
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5115. EFFECTIVE DATE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as may otherwise
be provided in this part and in the amend-
ments made by this part, this part and the
amendments made by this part shall apply
with respect to elections occurring during
2026 or any succeeding year, without regard
to whether or not the Federal Election Com-
mission has promulgated the final regula-
tions necessary to carry out this part and
the amendments made by this part by the
deadline set forth in subsection (b).
(b) DEADLINE FOR REGULATIONS.—Not later
than June 30, 2024, the Federal Election Com-
mission shall promulgate such regulations as
may be necessary to carry out this part and
the amendments made by this part.
Subtitle C—Presidential Elections
SEC. 5200. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Em-
power Act of 2019’’.
PART 1—PRIMARY ELECTIONS
SEC. 5201. INCREASE IN AND MODIFICATIONS TO
MATCHING PAYMENTS.
(a) INCREASE AND MODIFICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The first sentence of sec-
tion 9034(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘an amount equal to the
amount of each contribution’’ and inserting
‘‘an amount equal to 600 percent of the
amount of each matchable contribution (dis-
regarding any amount of contributions from
any person to the extent that the total of the
amounts contributed by such person for the
election exceeds $200)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘authorized committees’’
and all that follows through ‘‘$250’’ and in-
serting ‘‘authorized committees’’.
(2) MATCHABLE CONTRIBUTIONS.—Section
9034 of such Code is amended—
(A) by striking the last sentence of sub-
section (a); and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(c) MATCHABLE CONTRIBUTION DEFINED.—
For purposes of this section and section
9033(b)—
‘‘(1) MATCHABLE CONTRIBUTION.—The term
‘matchable contribution’ means, with re-
spect to the nomination for election to the
office of President of the United States, a
contribution by an individual to a candidate
or an authorized committee of a candidate
with respect to which the candidate has cer-
tified in writing that—
‘‘(A) the individual making such contribu-
tion has not made aggregate contributions
(including such matchable contribution) to
such candidate and the authorized commit-
tees of such candidate in excess of $1,000 for
the election;
‘‘(B) such candidate and the authorized
committees of such candidate will not accept
contributions from such individual (includ-
ing such matchable contribution) aggre-
gating more than the amount described in
subparagraph (A); and
‘‘(C) such contribution was a direct con-
tribution.
‘‘(2) CONTRIBUTION.—For purposes of this
subsection, the term ‘contribution’ means a
gift of money made by a written instrument
which identifies the individual making the
contribution by full name and mailing ad-
dress, but does not include a subscription,
loan, advance, or deposit of money, or any-
thing of value or anything described in sub-
paragraph (B), (C), or (D) of section 9032(4).
‘‘(3) DIRECT CONTRIBUTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sub-
section, the term ‘direct contribution’
means, with respect to a candidate, a con-
tribution which is made directly by an indi-
vidual to the candidate or an authorized
committee of the candidate and is not—
‘‘(i) forwarded from the individual making
the contribution to the candidate or com-
mittee by another person; or
‘‘(ii) received by the candidate or com-
mittee with the knowledge that the con-
tribution was made at the request, sugges-
tion, or recommendation of another person.
‘‘(B) OTHER DEFINITIONS.—In subparagraph
(A)—
‘‘(i) the term ‘person’ does not include an
individual (other than an individual de-
scribed in section 304(i)(7) of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971), a political
committee of a political party, or any polit-
ical committee which is not a separate seg-
regated fund described in section 316(b) of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
and which does not make contributions or
independent expenditures, does not engage in
lobbying activity under the Lobbying Disclo-
sure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and is
not established by, controlled by, or affili-
ated with a registered lobbyist under such
Act, an agent of a registered lobbyist under
such Act, or an organization which retains or
employs a registered lobbyist under such
Act; and
‘‘(ii) a contribution is not ‘made at the re-
quest, suggestion, or recommendation of an-
other person’ solely on the grounds that the
contribution is made in response to informa-
tion provided to the individual making the
contribution by any person, so long as the
candidate or authorized committee does not
know the identity of the person who pro-
vided the information to such individual.’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Section 9032(4) of such Code is amended
by striking ‘‘section 9034(a)’’ and inserting
‘‘section 9034’’.
(B) Section 9033(b)(3) of such Code is
amended by striking ‘‘matching contribu-
tions’’ and inserting ‘‘matchable contribu-
tions’’.
(b) MODIFICATION OF PAYMENT LIMITA-
TION.—Section 9034(b) of such Code is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘The total’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The total’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘shall not exceed’’ and all
that follows and inserting ‘‘shall not exceed
$250,000,000.’’, and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any appli-
cable period beginning after 2029, the dollar
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2462 March 6, 2019
amount in paragraph (1) shall be increased
by an amount equal to—
‘‘(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
‘‘(ii) the cost-of-living adjustment deter-
mined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar
year following the year which such applica-
ble period begins, determined by substituting
‘calendar year 2028’ for ‘calendar year 1992’ in
subparagraph (B) thereof.
‘‘(B) APPLICABLE PERIOD.—For purposes of
this paragraph, the term ‘applicable period’
means the 4-year period beginning with the
first day following the date of the general
election for the office of President and end-
ing on the date of the next such general elec-
tion.
‘‘(C) ROUNDING.—If any amount as adjusted
under subparagraph (1) is not a multiple of
$10,000, such amount shall be rounded to the
nearest multiple of $10,000.’’.
SEC. 5202. ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR
MATCHING PAYMENTS.
(a) AMOUNT OF AGGREGATE CONTRIBUTIONS
PER STATE; DISREGARDING OF AMOUNTS CON-
TRIBUTED IN EXCESS OF $200.—Section
9033(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$5,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$25,000’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘20 States’’ and inserting
the following: ‘‘20 States (disregarding any
amount of contributions from any such resi-
dent to the extent that the total of the
amounts contributed by such resident for the
election exceeds $200)’’.
(b) CONTRIBUTION LIMIT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (4) of section
9033(b) of such Code is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(4) the candidate and the authorized com-
mittees of the candidate will not accept ag-
gregate contributions from any person with
respect to the nomination for election to the
office of President of the United States in ex-
cess of $1,000 for the election.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Section 9033(b) of such Code is amended
by adding at the end the following new flush
sentence:
‘‘For purposes of paragraph (4), the term
‘contribution’ has the meaning given such
term in section 301(8) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971.’’.
(B) Section 9032(4) of such Code, as amend-
ed by section 5201(a)(3)(A), is amended by in-
serting ‘‘or 9033(b)’’ after ‘‘9034’’.
(c) PARTICIPATION IN SYSTEM FOR PAYMENTS
FOR GENERAL ELECTION.—Section 9033(b) of
such Code is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (3);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (4) and inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(5) if the candidate is nominated by a po-
litical party for election to the office of
President, the candidate will apply for and
accept payments with respect to the general
election for such office in accordance with
chapter 95.’’.
(d) PROHIBITION ON JOINT FUNDRAISING COM-
MITTEES.—Section 9033(b) of such Code, as
amended by subsection (c), is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (4);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (5) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (5) adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(6) the candidate will not establish a joint
fundraising committee with a political com-
mittee other than another authorized com-
mittee of the candidate, except that can-
didate established a joint fundraising com-
mittee with respect to a prior election for
which the candidate was not eligible to re-
ceive payments under section 9037 and the
candidate does not terminate the committee,
the candidate shall not be considered to be in
violation of this paragraph so long as that
joint fundraising committee does not receive
any contributions or make any disburse-
ments during the election cycle for which
the candidate is eligible to receive payments
under such section.’’.
SEC. 5203. REPEAL OF EXPENDITURE LIMITA-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section
9035 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(a) PERSONAL EXPENDITURE LIMITATION.—
No candidate shall knowingly make expendi-
tures from his personal funds, or the per-
sonal funds of his immediate family, in con-
nection with his campaign for nomination
for election to the office of President in ex-
cess of, in the aggregate, $50,000.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Paragraph
(1) of section 9033(b) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(1) the candidate will comply with the
personal expenditure limitation under sec-
tion 9035,’’.
SEC. 5204. PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY OF MATCH-
ING PAYMENTS.
Section 9032(6) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by striking ‘‘the be-
ginning of the calendar year in which a gen-
eral election for the office of President of the
United States will be held’’ and inserting
‘‘the date that is 6 months prior to the date
of the earliest State primary election’’.
SEC. 5205. EXAMINATION AND AUDITS OF MATCH-
ABLE CONTRIBUTIONS.
Section 9038(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by inserting ‘‘and
matchable contributions accepted by’’ after
‘‘qualified campaign expenses of’’.
SEC. 5206. MODIFICATION TO LIMITATION ON
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR PRESI-
DENTIAL PRIMARY CANDIDATES.
Section 315(a)(6) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30116(a)(6)) is
amended by striking ‘‘calendar year’’ and in-
serting ‘‘four-year election cycle’’.
SEC. 5207. USE OF FREEDOM FROM INFLUENCE
FUND AS SOURCE OF PAYMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 96 of subtitle H
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 9043. USE OF FREEDOM FROM INFLUENCE
FUND AS SOURCE OF PAYMENTS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, effective
with respect to the Presidential election
held in 2028 and each succeeding Presidential
election, all payments made to candidates
under this chapter shall be made from the
Freedom From Influence Fund established
under section 541 of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (hereafter in this sec-
tion referred to as the ‘Fund’).
‘‘(b) MANDATORY REDUCTION OF PAYMENTS
IN CASE OF INSUFFICIENT AMOUNTS IN FUND.—
‘‘(1) ADVANCE AUDITS BY COMMISSION.—Not
later than 90 days before the first day of each
Presidential election cycle (beginning with
the cycle for the election held in 2028), the
Commission shall—
‘‘(A) audit the Fund to determine whether,
after first making payments to participating
candidates under title V of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 and then making
payments to States under the My Voice
Voucher Program under the Government By
the People Act of 2019, the amounts remain-
ing in the Fund will be sufficient to make
payments to candidates under this chapter
in the amounts provided under this chapter
during such election cycle; and
‘‘(B) submit a report to Congress describ-
ing the results of the audit.
‘‘(2) REDUCTIONS IN AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS.—
‘‘(A) AUTOMATIC REDUCTION ON PRO RATA
BASIS.—If, on the basis of the audit described
in paragraph (1), the Commission determines
that the amount anticipated to be available
in the Fund with respect to the Presidential
election cycle involved is not, or may not be,
sufficient to satisfy the full entitlements of
candidates to payments under this chapter
for such cycle, the Commission shall reduce
each amount which would otherwise be paid
to a candidate under this chapter by such
pro rata amount as may be necessary to en-
sure that the aggregate amount of payments
anticipated to be made with respect to the
cycle will not exceed the amount anticipated
to be available for such payments in the
Fund with respect to such cycle.
‘‘(B) RESTORATION OF REDUCTIONS IN CASE
OF AVAILABILITY OF SUFFICIENT FUNDS DURING
ELECTION CYCLE.—If, after reducing the
amounts paid to candidates with respect to
an election cycle under subparagraph (A),
the Commission determines that there are
sufficient amounts in the Fund to restore
the amount by which such payments were re-
duced (or any portion thereof), to the extent
that such amounts are available, the Com-
mission may make a payment on a pro rata
basis to each such candidate with respect to
the election cycle in the amount by which
such candidate’s payments were reduced
under subparagraph (A) (or any portion
thereof, as the case may be).
‘‘(C) NO USE OF AMOUNTS FROM OTHER
SOURCES.—In any case in which the Commis-
sion determines that there are insufficient
moneys in the Fund to make payments to
candidates under this chapter, moneys shall
not be made available from any other source
for the purpose of making such payments.
‘‘(3) NO EFFECT ON AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED
FOR PEDIATRIC RESEARCH INITIATIVE.—This
section does not apply to the transfer of
funds under section 9008(i).
‘‘(4) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION CYCLE DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘Presi-
dential election cycle’ means, with respect
to a Presidential election, the period begin-
ning on the day after the date of the previous
Presidential general election and ending on
the date of the Presidential election.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 96 of subtitle H of such
Code is amended by adding at the end the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 9043. Use of Freedom From Influence
Fund as source of payments.’’.
PART 2—GENERAL ELECTIONS
SEC. 5211. MODIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY RE-
QUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC FINANC-
ING.
Subsection (a) of section 9003 of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In order to be eligible to
receive any payments under section 9006, the
candidates of a political party in a Presi-
dential election shall meet the following re-
quirements:
‘‘(1) PARTICIPATION IN PRIMARY PAYMENT
SYSTEM.—The candidate for President re-
ceived payments under chapter 96 for the
campaign for nomination for election to be
President.
‘‘(2) AGREEMENTS WITH COMMISSION.—The
candidates, in writing—
‘‘(A) agree to obtain and furnish to the
Commission such evidence as it may request
of the qualified campaign expenses of such
candidates,
‘‘(B) agree to keep and furnish to the Com-
mission such records, books, and other infor-
mation as it may request, and
‘‘(C) agree to an audit and examination by
the Commission under section 9007 and to
pay any amounts required to be paid under
such section.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2463
March 6, 2019
‘‘(3) PROHIBITION ON JOINT FUNDRAISING
COMMITTEES.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—The candidates certifies
in writing that the candidates will not estab-
lish a joint fundraising committee with a po-
litical committee other than another author-
ized committee of the candidate.
‘‘(B) STATUS OF EXISTING COMMITTEES FOR
PRIOR ELECTIONS.—If a candidate established
a joint fundraising committee described in
subparagraph (A) with respect to a prior
election for which the candidate was not eli-
gible to receive payments under section 9006
and the candidate does not terminate the
committee, the candidate shall not be con-
sidered to be in violation of subparagraph (A)
so long as that joint fundraising committee
does not receive any contributions or make
any disbursements with respect to the elec-
tion for which the candidate is eligible to re-
ceive payments under section 9006.’’.
SEC. 5212. REPEAL OF EXPENDITURE LIMITA-
TIONS AND USE OF QUALIFIED CAM-
PAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) USE OF QUALIFIED CAMPAIGN CONTRIBU-
TIONS WITHOUT EXPENDITURE LIMITS; APPLI-
CATION OF SAME REQUIREMENTS FOR MAJOR,
MINOR, AND NEW PARTIES.—Section 9003 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by striking subsections (b) and (c) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(b) USE OF QUALIFIED CAMPAIGN CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO DEFRAY EXPENSES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to be eligible to
receive any payments under section 9006, the
candidates of a party in a Presidential elec-
tion shall certify to the Commission, under
penalty of perjury, that—
‘‘(A) such candidates and their authorized
committees have not and will not accept any
contributions to defray qualified campaign
expenses other than—
‘‘(i) qualified campaign contributions, and
‘‘(ii) contributions to the extent necessary
to make up any deficiency payments re-
ceived out of the fund on account of the ap-
plication of section 9006(c), and
‘‘(B) such candidates and their authorized
committees have not and will not accept any
contribution to defray expenses which would
be qualified campaign expenses but for sub-
paragraph (C) of section 9002(11).
‘‘(2) TIMING OF CERTIFICATION.—The can-
didate shall make the certification required
under this subsection at the same time the
candidate makes the certification required
under subsection (a)(3).’’.
(b) DEFINITION OF QUALIFIED CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTION.—Section 9002 of such Code is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(13) QUALIFIED CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION.—
The term ‘qualified campaign contribution’
means, with respect to any election for the
office of President of the United States, a
contribution from an individual to a can-
didate or an authorized committee of a can-
didate which—
‘‘(A) does not exceed $1,000 for the election;
and
‘‘(B) with respect to which the candidate
has certified in writing that—
‘‘(i) the individual making such contribu-
tion has not made aggregate contributions
(including such qualified contribution) to
such candidate and the authorized commit-
tees of such candidate in excess of the
amount described in subparagraph (A), and
‘‘(ii) such candidate and the authorized
committees of such candidate will not accept
contributions from such individual (includ-
ing such qualified contribution) aggregating
more than the amount described in subpara-
graph (A) with respect to such election.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) REPEAL OF EXPENDITURE LIMITS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 315 of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30116) is amended by striking subsection (b).
(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
315(c) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30116(c)) is
amended—
(i) in paragraph (1)(B)(i), by striking ‘‘,
(b)’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2)(B)(i), by striking ‘‘sub-
sections (b) and (d)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (d)’’.
(2) REPEAL OF REPAYMENT REQUIREMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9007(b) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
striking paragraph (2) and redesignating
paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (2),
(3), and (4), respectively.
(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Paragraph
(2) of section 9007(b) of such Code, as redesig-
nated by subparagraph (A), is amended—
(i) by striking ‘‘a major party’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘a party’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘qualified contributions
and’’ after ‘‘contributions (other than’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘(other than qualified
campaign expenses with respect to which
payment is required under paragraph (2))’’.
(3) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—
(A) REPEAL OF PENALTY FOR EXCESS EX-
PENSES.—Section 9012 of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 is amended by striking sub-
section (a).
(B) PENALTY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF DIS-
ALLOWED CONTRIBUTIONS; APPLICATION OF
SAME PENALTY FOR CANDIDATES OF MAJOR,
MINOR, AND NEW PARTIES.—Subsection (b) of
section 9012 of such Code is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(b) CONTRIBUTIONS.—
‘‘(1) ACCEPTANCE OF DISALLOWED CONTRIBU-
TIONS.—It shall be unlawful for an eligible
candidate of a party in a Presidential elec-
tion or any of his authorized committees
knowingly and willfully to accept—
‘‘(A) any contribution other than a quali-
fied campaign contribution to defray quali-
fied campaign expenses, except to the extent
necessary to make up any deficiency in pay-
ments received out of the fund on account of
the application of section 9006(c); or
‘‘(B) any contribution to defray expenses
which would be qualified campaign expenses
but for subparagraph (C) of section 9002(11).
‘‘(2) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
paragraph (1) shall be fined not more than
$5,000, or imprisoned not more than one year,
or both. In the case of a violation by an au-
thorized committee, any officer or member
of such committee who knowingly and will-
fully consents to such violation shall be
fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not
more than one year, or both.’’.
SEC. 5213. MATCHING PAYMENTS AND OTHER
MODIFICATIONS TO PAYMENT
AMOUNTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS; APPLICATION OF
SAME AMOUNT FOR CANDIDATES OF MAJOR,
MINOR, AND NEW PARTIES.—Subsection (a) of
section 9004 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the provi-
sions of this chapter, the eligible candidates
of a party in a Presidential election shall be
entitled to equal payment under section 9006
in an amount equal to 600 percent of the
amount of each matchable contribution re-
ceived by such candidate or by the can-
didate’s authorized committees (disregarding
any amount of contributions from any per-
son to the extent that the total of the
amounts contributed by such person for the
election exceeds $200), except that total
amount to which a candidate is entitled
under this paragraph shall not exceed
$250,000,000.’’.
(2) REPEAL OF SEPARATE LIMITATIONS FOR
CANDIDATES OF MINOR AND NEW PARTIES; IN-
FLATION ADJUSTMENT.—Subsection (b) of sec-
tion 9004 of such Code is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(b) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any appli-
cable period beginning after 2029, the
$250,000,000 dollar amount in subsection (a)
shall be increased by an amount equal to—
‘‘(A) such dollar amount; multiplied by
‘‘(B) the cost-of-living adjustment deter-
mined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar
year following the year which such applica-
ble period begins, determined by substituting
‘calendar year 2028’ for ‘calendar year 1992’ in
subparagraph (B) thereof.
‘‘(2) APPLICABLE PERIOD.—For purposes of
this subsection, the term ‘applicable period’
means the 4-year period beginning with the
first day following the date of the general
election for the office of President and end-
ing on the date of the next such general elec-
tion.
‘‘(3) ROUNDING.—If any amount as adjusted
under paragraph (1) is not a multiple of
$10,000, such amount shall be rounded to the
nearest multiple of $10,000.’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
9005(a) of such Code is amended by adding at
the end the following new sentence: ‘‘The
Commission shall make such additional cer-
tifications as may be necessary to receive
payments under section 9004.’’.
(b) MATCHABLE CONTRIBUTION.—Section
9002 of such Code, as amended by section
5212(b), is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(14) MATCHABLE CONTRIBUTION.—The term
‘matchable contribution’ means, with re-
spect to the election to the office of Presi-
dent of the United States, a contribution by
an individual to a candidate or an authorized
committee of a candidate with respect to
which the candidate has certified in writing
that—
‘‘(A) the individual making such contribu-
tion has not made aggregate contributions
(including such matchable contribution) to
such candidate and the authorized commit-
tees of such candidate in excess of $1,000 for
the election;
‘‘(B) such candidate and the authorized
committees of such candidate will not accept
contributions from such individual (includ-
ing such matchable contribution) aggre-
gating more than the amount described in
subparagraph (A) with respect to such elec-
tion; and
‘‘(C) such contribution was a direct con-
tribution (as defined in section 9034(c)(3)).’’.
SEC. 5214. INCREASE IN LIMIT ON COORDINATED
PARTY EXPENDITURES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 315(d)(2) of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30116(d)(2)) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(2)(A) The national committee of a polit-
ical party may not make any expenditure in
connection with the general election cam-
paign of any candidate for President of the
United States who is affiliated with such
party which exceeds $100,000,000.
‘‘(B) For purposes of this paragraph—
‘‘(i) any expenditure made by or on behalf
of a national committee of a political party
and in connection with a Presidential elec-
tion shall be considered to be made in con-
nection with the general election campaign
of a candidate for President of the United
States who is affiliated with such party; and
‘‘(ii) any communication made by or on be-
half of such party shall be considered to be
made in connection with the general election
campaign of a candidate for President of the
United States who is affiliated with such
party if any portion of the communication is
in connection with such election.
‘‘(C) Any expenditure under this paragraph
shall be in addition to any expenditure by a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2464 March 6, 2019
national committee of a political party serv-
ing as the principal campaign committee of
a candidate for the office of President of the
United States.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO
TIMING OF COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 315(c)(1) of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 30116(c)(1)) is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘(d)’’
and inserting ‘‘(d)(2)’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(D) In any calendar year after 2028—
‘‘(i) the dollar amount in subsection (d)(2)
shall be increased by the percent difference
determined under subparagraph (A);
‘‘(ii) the amount so increased shall remain
in effect for the calendar year; and
‘‘(iii) if the amount after adjustment under
clause (i) is not a multiple of $100, such
amount shall be rounded to the nearest mul-
tiple of $100.’’.
(2) BASE YEAR.—Section 315(c)(2)(B) of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 30116(c)(2)(B)) is amended—
(A) in clause (i)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(d)’’ and inserting ‘‘(d)(3)’’;
and
(ii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(B) in clause (ii), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(iii) for purposes of subsection (d)(2), cal-
endar year 2027.’’.
SEC. 5215. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIFORM DATE
FOR RELEASE OF PAYMENTS.
(a) DATE FOR PAYMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9006(b) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(b) PAYMENTS FROM THE FUND.—If the
Secretary of the Treasury receives a certifi-
cation from the Commission under section
9005 for payment to the eligible candidates of
a political party, the Secretary shall pay to
such candidates out of the fund the amount
certified by the Commission on the later of—
‘‘(1) the last Friday occurring before the
first Monday in September; or
‘‘(2) 24 hours after receiving the certifi-
cations for the eligible candidates of all
major political parties.
Amounts paid to any such candidates shall
be under the control of such candidates.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The first sen-
tence of section 9006(c) of such Code is
amended by striking ‘‘the time of a certifi-
cation by the Commission under section 9005
for payment’’ and inserting ‘‘the time of
making a payment under subsection (b)’’.
(b) TIME FOR CERTIFICATION.—Section
9005(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
is amended by striking ‘‘10 days’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘24 hours’’.
SEC. 5216. AMOUNTS IN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
CAMPAIGN FUND.
Section 9006(c) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end
the following new sentence: ‘‘In making a de-
termination of whether there are insufficient
moneys in the fund for purposes of the pre-
vious sentence, the Secretary shall take into
account in determining the balance of the
fund for a Presidential election year the Sec-
retary’s best estimate of the amount of mon-
eys which will be deposited into the fund
during the year, except that the amount of
the estimate may not exceed the average of
the annual amounts deposited in the fund
during the previous 3 years.’’.
SEC. 5217. USE OF GENERAL ELECTION PAY-
MENTS FOR GENERAL ELECTION
LEGAL AND ACCOUNTING COMPLI-
ANCE.
Section 9002(11) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end
the following new sentence: ‘‘For purposes of
subparagraph (A), an expense incurred by a
candidate or authorized committee for gen-
eral election legal and accounting compli-
ance purposes shall be considered to be an
expense to further the election of such can-
didate.’’.
SEC. 5218. USE OF FREEDOM FROM INFLUENCE
FUND AS SOURCE OF PAYMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 95 of subtitle H
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 9013. USE OF FREEDOM FROM INFLUENCE
FUND AS SOURCE OF PAYMENTS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, effective
with respect to the Presidential election
held in 2028 and each succeeding Presidential
election, all payments made under this chap-
ter shall be made from the Freedom From
Influence Fund established under section 541
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971.
‘‘(b) MANDATORY REDUCTION OF PAYMENTS
IN CASE OF INSUFFICIENT AMOUNTS IN FUND.—
‘‘(1) ADVANCE AUDITS BY COMMISSION.—Not
later than 90 days before the first day of each
Presidential election cycle (beginning with
the cycle for the election held in 2028), the
Commission shall—
‘‘(A) audit the Fund to determine whether,
after first making payments to participating
candidates under title V of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 and then making
payments to States under the My Voice
Voucher Program under the Government By
the People Act of 2019 and then making pay-
ments to candidates under chapter 96, the
amounts remaining in the Fund will be suffi-
cient to make payments to candidates under
this chapter in the amounts provided under
this chapter during such election cycle; and
‘‘(B) submit a report to Congress describ-
ing the results of the audit.
‘‘(2) REDUCTIONS IN AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS.—
‘‘(A) AUTOMATIC REDUCTION ON PRO RATA
BASIS.—If, on the basis of the audit described
in paragraph (1), the Commission determines
that the amount anticipated to be available
in the Fund with respect to the Presidential
election cycle involved is not, or may not be,
sufficient to satisfy the full entitlements of
candidates to payments under this chapter
for such cycle, the Commission shall reduce
each amount which would otherwise be paid
to a candidate under this chapter by such
pro rata amount as may be necessary to en-
sure that the aggregate amount of payments
anticipated to be made with respect to the
cycle will not exceed the amount anticipated
to be available for such payments in the
Fund with respect to such cycle.
‘‘(B) RESTORATION OF REDUCTIONS IN CASE
OF AVAILABILITY OF SUFFICIENT FUNDS DURING
ELECTION CYCLE.—If, after reducing the
amounts paid to candidates with respect to
an election cycle under subparagraph (A),
the Commission determines that there are
sufficient amounts in the Fund to restore
the amount by which such payments were re-
duced (or any portion thereof), to the extent
that such amounts are available, the Com-
mission may make a payment on a pro rata
basis to each such candidate with respect to
the election cycle in the amount by which
such candidate’s payments were reduced
under subparagraph (A) (or any portion
thereof, as the case may be).
‘‘(C) NO USE OF AMOUNTS FROM OTHER
SOURCES.—In any case in which the Commis-
sion determines that there are insufficient
moneys in the Fund to make payments to
candidates under this chapter, moneys shall
not be made available from any other source
for the purpose of making such payments.
‘‘(3) NO EFFECT ON AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED
FOR PEDIATRIC RESEARCH INITIATIVE.—This
section does not apply to the transfer of
funds under section 9008(i).
‘‘(4) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION CYCLE DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘Presi-
dential election cycle’ means, with respect
to a Presidential election, the period begin-
ning on the day after the date of the previous
Presidential general election and ending on
the date of the Presidential election.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 95 of subtitle H of such
Code is amended by adding at the end the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 9013. Use of Freedom From Influence
Fund as source of payments.’’.
PART 3—EFFECTIVE DATE
SEC. 5221. EFFECTIVE DATE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided, this subtitle and the amendments
made by this subtitle shall apply with re-
spect to the Presidential election held in 2028
and each succeeding Presidential election,
without regard to whether or not the Federal
Election Commission has promulgated the
final regulations necessary to carry out this
part and the amendments made by this part
by the deadline set forth in subsection (b).
(b) DEADLINE FOR REGULATIONS.—Not later
than June 30, 2026, the Federal Election Com-
mission shall promulgate such regulations as
may be necessary to carry out this part and
the amendments made by this part.
Subtitle D—Personal Use Services as
Authorized Campaign Expenditures
SEC. 5301. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This subtitle may be
cited as the ‘‘Help America Run Act’’.
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Everyday Americans experience bar-
riers to entry before they can consider run-
ning for office to serve their communities.
(2) Current law states that campaign funds
cannot be spent on everyday expenses that
would exist whether or not a candidate were
running for office, like childcare and food.
While the law seems neutral, its actual ef-
fect is to privilege the independently
wealthy who want to run, because given the
demands of running for office, candidates
who must work to pay for childcare or to af-
ford health insurance are effectively being
left out of the process, even if they have suf-
ficient support to mount a viable campaign.
(3) Thus current practice favors those pro-
spective candidates who do not need to rely
on a regular paycheck to make ends meet.
The consequence is that everyday Americans
who have firsthand knowledge of the impor-
tance of stable childcare, a safety net, or
great public schools are less likely to get a
seat at the table. This governance by the few
is antithetical to the democratic experi-
ment, but most importantly, when law-
makers do not share the concerns of every-
day Americans, their policies reflect that.
(4) These circumstances have contributed
to a Congress that does not always reflect
everyday Americans. The New York Times
reported in 2019 that fewer than 5 percent of
representatives cite blue-collar or service
jobs in their biographies. A 2015 survey by
the Center for Responsive Politics showed
that the median net worth of lawmakers was
just over $1 million in 2013, or 18 times the
wealth of the typical American household.
(5) These circumstances have also contrib-
uted to a governing body that does not re-
flect the nation it serves. For instance,
women are 51% of the American population.
Yet even with a record number of women
serving in the One Hundred Sixteenth Con-
gress, the Pew Research Center notes that
more than three out of four Members of this
Congress are male. The Center for American
Women And Politics found that one third of
women legislators surveyed had been ac-
tively discouraged from running for office,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2465
March 6, 2019
often by political professionals. This type of
discouragement, combined with the prohibi-
tions on using campaign funds for domestic
needs like childcare, burdens that still fall
disproportionately on American women, par-
ticularly disadvantages working mothers.
These barriers may explain why only 10
women in history have given birth while
serving in Congress, in spite of the preva-
lence of working parents in other profes-
sions. Yet working mothers and fathers are
best positioned to create policy that reflects
the lived experience of most Americans.
(6) Working mothers, those caring for their
elderly parents, and young professionals who
rely on their jobs for health insurance should
have the freedom to run to serve the people
of the United States. Their networks and net
worth are simply not the best indicators of
their strength as prospective public servants.
In fact, helping ordinary Americans to run
may create better policy for all Americans.
(c) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of this sub-
title to ensure that all Americans who are
otherwise qualified to serve this Nation are
able to run for office, regardless of their eco-
nomic status. By expanding permissible uses
of campaign funds and providing modest as-
surance that testing a run for office will not
cost one’s livelihood, the Help America Run
Act will facilitate the candidacy of rep-
resentatives who more accurately reflect the
experiences, challenges, and ideals of every-
day Americans.
SEC. 5302. TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS FOR CHILD
CARE AND OTHER PERSONAL USE
SERVICES AS AUTHORIZED CAM-
PAIGN EXPENDITURE.
(a) PERSONAL USE SERVICES AS AUTHORIZED
CAMPAIGN EXPENDITURE.—Section 313 of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30114), as amended by section 5113, is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
‘‘(e) TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS FOR CHILD
CARE AND OTHER PERSONAL USE SERVICES AS
AUTHORIZED CAMPAIGN EXPENDITURE.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.—For pur-
poses of subsection (a), the payment by an
authorized committee of a candidate for any
of the personal use services described in
paragraph (3) shall be treated as an author-
ized expenditure if the services are necessary
to enable the participation of the candidate
in campaign-connected activities.
‘‘(2) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(A) LIMIT ON TOTAL AMOUNT OF PAY-
MENTS.—The total amount of payments made
by an authorized committee of a candidate
for personal use services described in para-
graph (3) may not exceed the limit which is
applicable under any law, rule, or regulation
on the amount of payments which may be
made by the committee for the salary of the
candidate (without regard to whether or not
the committee makes payments to the can-
didate for that purpose).
‘‘(B) CORRESPONDING REDUCTION IN AMOUNT
OF SALARY PAID TO CANDIDATE.—To the ex-
tent that an authorized committee of a can-
didate makes payments for the salary of the
candidate, any limit on the amount of such
payments which is applicable under any law,
rule, or regulation shall be reduced by the
amount of any payments made to or on be-
half of the candidate for personal use serv-
ices described in paragraph (3), other than
personal use services described in subpara-
graph (E) of such paragraph.
‘‘(C) EXCLUSION OF CANDIDATES WHO ARE OF-
FICEHOLDERS.—Paragraph (1) does not apply
with respect to an authorized committee of a
candidate who is a holder of Federal office.
‘‘(3) PERSONAL USE SERVICES DESCRIBED.—
The personal use services described in this
paragraph are as follows:
‘‘(A) Child care services.
‘‘(B) Elder care services.
‘‘(C) Services similar to the services de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) or subparagraph
(B) which are provided on behalf of any de-
pendent who is a qualifying relative under
section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.
‘‘(D) Health insurance premiums.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle E—Severability
SEC. 5401. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title or amendment
made by this title, or the application of a
provision or amendment to any person or
circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this title and amendments
made by this title, and the application of the
provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
TITLE VI—CAMPAIGN FINANCE
OVERSIGHT
Subtitle A—Restoring Integrity to America’s
Elections
Sec. 6001. Short title.
Sec. 6002. Membership of Federal Election
Commission.
Sec. 6003. Assignment of powers to Chair of
Federal Election Commission.
Sec. 6004. Revision to enforcement process.
Sec. 6005. Permitting appearance at hearings
on requests for advisory opin-
ions by persons opposing the re-
quests.
Sec. 6006. Permanent extension of adminis-
trative penalty authority.
Sec. 6007. Restrictions on ex parte commu-
nications.
Sec. 6008. Effective date; transition.
Subtitle B—Stopping Super PAC-Candidate
Coordination
Sec. 6101. Short title.
Sec. 6102. Clarification of treatment of co-
ordinated expenditures as con-
tributions to candidates.
Sec. 6103. Clarification of ban on fundraising
for super PACs by Federal can-
didates and officeholders.
Subtitle C—Severability
Sec. 6201. Severability.
Subtitle A—Restoring Integrity to America’s
Elections
SEC. 6001. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Restor-
ing Integrity to America’s Elections Act’’.
SEC. 6002. MEMBERSHIP OF FEDERAL ELECTION
COMMISSION.
(a) REDUCTION IN NUMBER OF MEMBERS; RE-
MOVAL OF SECRETARY OF SENATE AND CLERK
OF HOUSE AS EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL; QUORUM.—Section 306(a)(1)
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30106(a)(1)) is amended by striking
the second and third sentences and inserting
the following: ‘‘The Commission is composed
of 5 members appointed by the President by
and with the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate, of whom no more than 2 may be affili-
ated with the same political party. A mem-
ber shall by treated as affiliated with a polit-
ical party if the member was affiliated, in-
cluding as a registered voter, employee, con-
sultant, donor, officer, or attorney, with
such political party or any of its candidates
or elected public officials at any time during
the 5-year period ending on the date on
which such individual is nominated to be a
member of the Commission. A majority of
the number of members of the Commission
who are serving at the time shall constitute
a quorum, except that 3 members shall con-
stitute a quorum if there are 4 members
serving at the time.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO
REDUCTION IN NUMBER OF MEMBERS.—(A) The
second sentence of section 306(c) of such Act
(52 U.S.C. 30106(c)) is amended by striking
‘‘affirmative vote of 4 members of the Com-
mission’’ and inserting ‘‘affirmative vote of a
majority of the members of the Commission
who are serving at the time’’.
(B) Such Act is further amended by strik-
ing ‘‘affirmative vote of 4 of its members’’
and inserting ‘‘affirmative vote of a majority
of the members of the Commission who are
serving at the time’’ each place it appears in
the following sections:
(i) Section 309(a)(2) (52 U.S.C. 30109(a)(2)).
(ii) Section 309(a)(4)(A)(i) (52 U.S.C.
30109(a)(4)(A)(i)).
(iii) Section 309(a)(5)(C) (52 U.S.C.
30109(a)(5)(C)).
(iv) Section 309(a)(6)(A) (52 U.S.C.
30109(a)(6)(A)).
(v) Section 311(b) (52 U.S.C. 30111(b)).
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
REMOVAL OF EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.—Section
306(a) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30106(a)) is
amended by striking ‘‘(other than the Sec-
retary of the Senate and the Clerk of the
House of Representatives)’’ each place it ap-
pears in paragraphs (4) and (5).
(b) TERMS OF SERVICE.—Section 306(a)(2) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 30106(a)(2)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(2) TERMS OF SERVICE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each member of the
Commission shall serve for a single term of
6 years.
‘‘(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR INITIAL APPOINT-
MENTS.—Of the members first appointed to
serve terms that begin in January 2022, the
President shall designate 2 to serve for a 3-
year term.
‘‘(C) NO REAPPOINTMENT PERMITTED.—An
individual who served a term as a member of
the Commission may not serve for an addi-
tional term, except that—
‘‘(i) an individual who served a 3-year term
under subparagraph (B) may also be ap-
pointed to serve a 6-year term under sub-
paragraph (A); and
‘‘(ii) for purposes of this subparagraph, an
individual who is appointed to fill a vacancy
under subparagraph (D) shall not be consid-
ered to have served a term if the portion of
the unexpired term the individual fills is less
than 50 percent of the period of the term.
‘‘(D) VACANCIES.—Any vacancy occurring
in the membership of the Commission shall
be filled in the same manner as in the case
of the original appointment. Except as pro-
vided in subparagraph (C), an individual ap-
pointed to fill a vacancy occurring other
than by the expiration of a term of office
shall be appointed only for the unexpired
term of the member he or she succeeds.
‘‘(E) LIMITATION ON SERVICE AFTER EXPIRA-
TION OF TERM.—A member of the Commission
may continue to serve on the Commission
after the expiration of the member’s term for
an additional period, but only until the ear-
lier of—
‘‘(i) the date on which the member’s suc-
cessor has taken office as a member of the
Commission; or
‘‘(ii) the expiration of the 1-year period
that begins on the last day of the member’s
term.’’.
(c) QUALIFICATIONS.—Section 306(a)(3) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 30106(a)(3)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(3) QUALIFICATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The President may se-
lect an individual for service as a member of
the Commission if the individual has experi-
ence in election law and has a demonstrated
record of integrity, impartiality, and good
judgment.
‘‘(B) ASSISTANCE OF BLUE RIBBON ADVISORY
PANEL.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2466 March 6, 2019
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Prior to the regularly
scheduled expiration of the term of a mem-
ber of the Commission and upon the occur-
rence of a vacancy in the membership of the
Commission prior to the expiration of a
term, the President shall convene a Blue
Ribbon Advisory Panel, consisting of an odd
number of individuals selected by the Presi-
dent from retired Federal judges, former law
enforcement officials, or individuals with ex-
perience in election law, except that the
President may not select any individual to
serve on the panel who holds any public of-
fice at the time of selection.
‘‘(ii) RECOMMENDATIONS.—With respect to
each member of the Commission whose term
is expiring or each vacancy in the member-
ship of the Commission (as the case may be),
the Blue Ribbon Advisory Panel shall rec-
ommend to the President at least one but
not more than 3 individuals for nomination
for appointment as a member of the Commis-
sion.
‘‘(iii) PUBLICATION.—At the time the Presi-
dent submits to the Senate the nominations
for individuals to be appointed as members
of the Commission, the President shall pub-
lish the Blue Ribbon Advisory Panel’s rec-
ommendations for such nominations.
‘‘(iv) EXEMPTION FROM FEDERAL ADVISORY
COMMITTEE ACT.—The Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to
a Blue Ribbon Advisory Panel convened
under this subparagraph.
‘‘(C) PROHIBITING ENGAGEMENT WITH OTHER
BUSINESS OR EMPLOYMENT DURING SERVICE.—A
member of the Commission shall not engage
in any other business, vocation, or employ-
ment. Any individual who is engaging in any
other business, vocation, or employment at
the time of his or her appointment to the
Commission shall terminate or liquidate
such activity no later than 90 days after such
appointment.’’.
SEC. 6003. ASSIGNMENT OF POWERS TO CHAIR OF
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION.
(a) APPOINTMENT OF CHAIR BY PRESIDENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 306(a)(5) of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30106(a)(5)) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(5) CHAIR.—
‘‘(A) INITIAL APPOINTMENT.—Of the mem-
bers first appointed to serve terms that
begin in January 2022, one such member (as
designated by the President at the time the
President submits nominations to the Sen-
ate) shall serve as Chair of the Commission.
‘‘(B) SUBSEQUENT APPOINTMENTS.—Any in-
dividual who is appointed to succeed the
member who serves as Chair of the Commis-
sion for the term beginning in January 2022
(as well as any individual who is appointed
to fill a vacancy if such member does not
serve a full term as Chair) shall serve as
Chair of the Commission.
‘‘(C) VICE CHAIR.—The Commission shall se-
lect, by majority vote of its members, one of
its members to serve as Vice Chair, who
shall act as Chair in the absence or disability
of the Chair or in the event of a vacancy in
the position of Chair.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
309(a)(2) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30109(a)(2)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through its chairman
or vice chairman’’ and inserting ‘‘through
the Chair’’.
(b) POWERS.—
(1) ASSIGNMENT OF CERTAIN POWERS TO
CHAIR.—Section 307(a) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
30107(a)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(a) DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS BETWEEN
CHAIR AND COMMISSION.—
‘‘(1) POWERS ASSIGNED TO CHAIR.—
‘‘(A) ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS.—The Chair
of the Commission shall be the chief admin-
istrative officer of the Commission and shall
have the authority to administer the Com-
mission and its staff, and (in consultation
with the other members of the Commission)
shall have the power—
‘‘(i) to appoint and remove the staff direc-
tor of the Commission;
‘‘(ii) to request the assistance (including
personnel and facilities) of other agencies
and departments of the United States, whose
heads may make such assistance available to
the Commission with or without reimburse-
ment; and
‘‘(iii) to prepare and establish the budget of
the Commission and to make budget re-
quests to the President, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, and Con-
gress.
‘‘(B) OTHER POWERS.—The Chair of the
Commission shall have the power—
‘‘(i) to appoint and remove the general
counsel of the Commission with the concur-
rence of at least 2 other members of the
Commission;
‘‘(ii) to require by special or general or-
ders, any person to submit, under oath, such
written reports and answers to questions as
the Chair may prescribe;
‘‘(iii) to administer oaths or affirmations;
‘‘(iv) to require by subpoena, signed by the
Chair, the attendance and testimony of wit-
nesses and the production of all documen-
tary evidence relating to the execution of its
duties;
‘‘(v) in any proceeding or investigation, to
order testimony to be taken by deposition
before any person who is designated by the
Chair, and shall have the power to admin-
ister oaths and, in such instances, to compel
testimony and the production of evidence in
the same manner as authorized under clause
(iv); and
‘‘(vi) to pay witnesses the same fees and
mileage as are paid in like circumstances in
the courts of the United States.
‘‘(2) POWERS ASSIGNED TO COMMISSION.—The
Commission shall have the power—
‘‘(A) to initiate (through civil actions for
injunctive, declaratory, or other appropriate
relief), defend (in the case of any civil action
brought under section 309(a)(8) of this Act) or
appeal (including a proceeding before the Su-
preme Court on certiorari) any civil action
in the name of the Commission to enforce
the provisions of this Act and chapter 95 and
chapter 96 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, through its general counsel;
‘‘(B) to render advisory opinions under sec-
tion 308 of this Act;
‘‘(C) to develop such prescribed forms and
to make, amend, and repeal such rules, pur-
suant to the provisions of chapter 5 of title
5, United States Code, as are necessary to
carry out the provisions of this Act and
chapter 95 and chapter 96 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986;
‘‘(D) to conduct investigations and hear-
ings expeditiously, to encourage voluntary
compliance, and to report apparent viola-
tions to the appropriate law enforcement au-
thorities; and
‘‘(E) to transmit to the President and Con-
gress not later than June 1 of each year a re-
port which states in detail the activities of
the Commission in carrying out its duties
under this Act, and which includes any rec-
ommendations for any legislative or other
action the Commission considers appro-
priate.
‘‘(3) PERMITTING COMMISSION TO EXERCISE
OTHER POWERS OF CHAIR.—With respect to
any investigation, action, or proceeding, the
Commission, by an affirmative vote of a ma-
jority of the members who are serving at the
time, may exercise any of the powers of the
Chair described in paragraph (1)(B).’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO
PERSONNEL AUTHORITY.—Section 306(f) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 30106(f)) is amended—
(A) by amending the first sentence of para-
graph (1) to read as follows: ‘‘The Commis-
sion shall have a staff director who shall be
appointed by the Chair of the Commission in
consultation with the other members and a
general counsel who shall be appointed by
the Chair with the concurrence of at least
two other members.’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘With the
approval of the Commission’’ and inserting
‘‘With the approval of the Chair of the Com-
mission’’; and
(C) by striking paragraph (3).
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
BUDGET SUBMISSION.—Section 307(d)(1) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 30107(d)(1)) is amended by
striking ‘‘the Commission submits any budg-
et’’ and inserting ‘‘the Chair (or, pursuant to
subsection (a)(3), the Commission) submits
any budget’’.
(4) OTHER CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Sec-
tion 306(c) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30106(c)) is
amended by striking ‘‘All decisions’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Subject to section 307(a), all deci-
sions’’.
(5) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—The heading of
section 307 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30107) is
amended by striking ‘‘THE COMMISSION’’ and
inserting ‘‘THE CHAIR AND THE COMMISSION’’.
SEC. 6004. REVISION TO ENFORCEMENT PROC-
ESS.
(a) STANDARD FOR INITIATING INVESTIGA-
TIONS AND DETERMINING WHETHER VIOLATIONS
HAVE OCCURRED.—
(1) REVISION OF STANDARDS.—Section 309(a)
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30109(a)) is amended by striking
paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2)(A) The general counsel, upon receiving
a complaint filed with the Commission under
paragraph (1) or upon the basis of informa-
tion ascertained by the Commission in the
normal course of carrying out its super-
visory responsibilities, shall make a deter-
mination as to whether or not there is rea-
son to believe that a person has committed,
or is about to commit, a violation of this Act
or chapter 95 or chapter 96 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, and as to whether or
not the Commission should either initiate an
investigation of the matter or that the com-
plaint should be dismissed. The general
counsel shall promptly provide notification
to the Commission of such determination
and the reasons therefore, together with any
written response submitted under paragraph
(1) by the person alleged to have committed
the violation. Upon the expiration of the 30-
day period which begins on the date the gen-
eral counsel provides such notification, the
general counsel’s determination shall take
effect, unless during such 30-day period the
Commission, by vote of a majority of the
members of the Commission who are serving
at the time, overrules the general counsel’s
determination. If the determination by the
general counsel that the Commission should
investigate the matter takes effect, or if the
determination by the general counsel that
the complaint should be dismissed is over-
ruled as provided under the previous sen-
tence, the general counsel shall initiate an
investigation of the matter on behalf of the
Commission.
‘‘(B) If the Commission initiates an inves-
tigation pursuant to subparagraph (A), the
Commission, through the Chair, shall notify
the subject of the investigation of the al-
leged violation. Such notification shall set
forth the factual basis for such alleged viola-
tion. The Commission shall make an inves-
tigation of such alleged violation, which
may include a field investigation or audit, in
accordance with the provisions of this sec-
tion. The general counsel shall provide noti-
fication to the Commission of any intent to
issue a subpoena or conduct any other form
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2467
March 6, 2019
of discovery pursuant to the investigation.
Upon the expiration of the 15-day period
which begins on the date the general counsel
provides such notification, the general coun-
sel may issue the subpoena or conduct the
discovery, unless during such 15-day period
the Commission, by vote of a majority of the
members of the Commission who are serving
at the time, prohibits the general counsel
from issuing the subpoena or conducting the
discovery.
‘‘(3)(A) Upon completion of an investiga-
tion under paragraph (2), the general counsel
shall promptly submit to the Commission
the general counsel’s recommendation that
the Commission find either that there is
probable cause or that there is not probable
cause to believe that a person has com-
mitted, or is about to commit, a violation of
this Act or chapter 95 or chapter 96 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, and shall in-
clude with the recommendation a brief stat-
ing the position of the general counsel on the
legal and factual issues of the case.
‘‘(B) At the time the general counsel sub-
mits to the Commission the recommendation
under subparagraph (A), the general counsel
shall simultaneously notify the respondent
of such recommendation and the reasons
therefore, shall provide the respondent with
an opportunity to submit a brief within 30
days stating the position of the respondent
on the legal and factual issues of the case
and replying to the brief of the general coun-
sel. The general counsel and shall promptly
submit such brief to the Commission upon
receipt.
‘‘(C) Not later than 30 days after the gen-
eral counsel submits the recommendation to
the Commission under subparagraph (A) (or,
if the respondent submits a brief under sub-
paragraph (B), not later than 30 days after
the general counsel submits the respondent’s
brief to the Commission under such subpara-
graph), the Commission shall approve or dis-
approve the recommendation by vote of a
majority of the members of the Commission
who are serving at the time.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
INITIAL RESPONSE TO FILING OF COMPLAINT.—
Section 309(a)(1) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
30109(a)(1)) is amended—
(A) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘the
Commission’’ and inserting ‘‘the general
counsel’’; and
(B) by amending the fourth sentence to
read as follows: ‘‘Not later than 15 days after
receiving notice from the general counsel
under the previous sentence, the person may
provide the general counsel with a written
response that no action should be taken
against such person on the basis of the com-
plaint.’’.
(b) REVISION OF STANDARD FOR REVIEW OF
DISMISSAL OF COMPLAINTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 309(a)(8) of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 30109(a)(8)) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(8)(A)(i) Any party aggrieved by an order
of the Commission dismissing a complaint
filed by such party after finding either no
reason to believe a violation has occurred or
no probable cause a violation has occurred
may file a petition with the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia.
Any petition under this subparagraph shall
be filed within 60 days after the date on
which the party received notice of the dis-
missal of the complaint.
‘‘(ii) In any proceeding under this subpara-
graph, the court shall determine by de novo
review whether the agency’s dismissal of the
complaint is contrary to law. In any matter
in which the penalty for the alleged viola-
tion is greater than $50,000, the court should
disregard any claim or defense by the Com-
mission of prosecutorial discretion as a basis
for dismissing the complaint.
‘‘(B)(i) Any party who has filed a com-
plaint with the Commission and who is ag-
grieved by a failure of the Commission, with-
in one year after the filing of the complaint,
to either dismiss the complaint or to find
reason to believe a violation has occurred or
is about to occur, may file a petition with
the United States District Court for the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
‘‘(ii) In any proceeding under this subpara-
graph, the court shall treat the failure to act
on the complaint as a dismissal of the com-
plaint, and shall determine by de novo re-
view whether the agency’s failure to act on
the complaint is contrary to law.
‘‘(C) In any proceeding under this para-
graph the court may declare that the dis-
missal of the complaint or the failure to act
is contrary to law, and may direct the Com-
mission to conform with such declaration
within 30 days, failing which the complain-
ant may bring, in the name of such com-
plainant, a civil action to remedy the viola-
tion involved in the original complaint.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by paragraph (1) shall apply—
(A) in the case of complaints which are dis-
missed by the Federal Election Commission,
with respect to complaints which are dis-
missed on or after the date of the enactment
of this Act; and
(B) in the case of complaints upon which
the Federal Election Commission failed to
act, with respect to complaints which were
filed on or after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
SEC. 6005. PERMITTING APPEARANCE AT HEAR-
INGS ON REQUESTS FOR ADVISORY
OPINIONS BY PERSONS OPPOSING
THE REQUESTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 308 of such Act
(52 U.S.C. 30108) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(e) To the extent that the Commission
provides an opportunity for a person request-
ing an advisory opinion under this section
(or counsel for such person) to appear before
the Commission to present testimony in sup-
port of the request, and the person (or coun-
sel) accepts such opportunity, the Commis-
sion shall provide a reasonable opportunity
for an interested party who submitted writ-
ten comments under subsection (d) in re-
sponse to the request (or counsel for such in-
terested party) to appear before the Commis-
sion to present testimony in response to the
request.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to requests for advisory opinions under
section 308 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 which are made on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 6006. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF ADMINIS-
TRATIVE PENALTY AUTHORITY.
(a) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.—Section
309(a)(4)(C)(v) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30109(a)(4)(C)(v)),
as amended by Public Law 115–386, is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘, and that end on or before
December 31, 2023’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
December 31, 2018.
SEC. 6007. RESTRICTIONS ON EX PARTE COMMU-
NICATIONS.
Section 306(e) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30106(e)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘(e) The Commission’’ and
inserting ‘‘(e)(1) The Commission’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) Members and employees of the Com-
mission shall be subject to limitations on ex
parte communications, as provided in the
regulations promulgated by the Commission
regarding such communications which are in
effect on the date of the enactment of this
paragraph.’’.
SEC. 6008. EFFECTIVE DATE; TRANSITION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided, the amendments made by this subtitle
shall apply beginning January 1, 2022.
(b) TRANSITION.—
(1) TERMINATION OF SERVICE OF CURRENT
MEMBERS.—Notwithstanding any provision of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971,
the term of any individual serving as a mem-
ber of the Federal Election Commission as of
December 31, 2021, shall expire on that date.
(2) NO EFFECT ON EXISTING CASES OR PRO-
CEEDINGS.—Nothing in this subtitle or in any
amendment made by this subtitle shall af-
fect any of the powers exercised by the Fed-
eral Election Commission prior to December
31, 2021, including any investigation initiated
by the Commission prior to such date or any
proceeding (including any enforcement ac-
tion) pending as of such date.
Subtitle B—Stopping Super PAC-Candidate
Coordination
SEC. 6101. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Stop
Super PAC–Candidate Coordination Act’’.
SEC. 6102. CLARIFICATION OF TREATMENT OF
COORDINATED EXPENDITURES AS
CONTRIBUTIONS TO CANDIDATES.
(a) TREATMENT AS CONTRIBUTION TO CAN-
DIDATE.—Section 301(8)(A) of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101(8)(A)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of clause (i);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
clause (ii) and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(iii) any payment made by any person
(other than a candidate, an authorized com-
mittee of a candidate, or a political com-
mittee of a political party) for a coordinated
expenditure (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 326) which is not otherwise treated as a
contribution under clause (i) or clause (ii).’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Title III of such Act (52
U.S.C. 30101 et seq.), as amended by section
4702(a), is amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
‘‘SEC. 326. PAYMENTS FOR COORDINATED EX-
PENDITURES.
‘‘(a) COORDINATED EXPENDITURES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section
301(8)(A)(iii), the term ‘coordinated expendi-
ture’ means—
‘‘(A) any expenditure, or any payment for
a covered communication described in sub-
section (d), which is made in cooperation,
consultation, or concert with, or at the re-
quest or suggestion of, a candidate, an au-
thorized committee of a candidate, a polit-
ical committee of a political party, or agents
of the candidate or committee, as defined in
subsection (b); or
‘‘(B) any payment for any communication
which republishes, disseminates, or distrib-
utes, in whole or in part, any video or broad-
cast or any written, graphic, or other form of
campaign material prepared by the can-
didate or committee or by agents of the can-
didate or committee (including any excerpt
or use of any video from any such broadcast
or written, graphic, or other form of cam-
paign material).
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION FOR PAYMENTS FOR CERTAIN
COMMUNICATIONS.—A payment for a commu-
nication (including a covered communica-
tion described in subsection (d)) shall not be
treated as a coordinated expenditure under
this subsection if—
‘‘(A) the communication appears in a news
story, commentary, or editorial distributed
through the facilities of any broadcasting
station, newspaper, magazine, or other peri-
odical publication, unless such facilities are
owned or controlled by any political party,
political committee, or candidate; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2468 March 6, 2019
‘‘(B) the communication constitutes a can-
didate debate or forum conducted pursuant
to regulations adopted by the Commission
pursuant to section 304(f)(3)(B)(iii), or which
solely promotes such a debate or forum and
is made by or on behalf of the person spon-
soring the debate or forum.
‘‘(b) COORDINATION DESCRIBED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, a payment is made ‘in cooperation, con-
sultation, or concert with, or at the request
or suggestion of,’ a candidate, an authorized
committee of a candidate, a political com-
mittee of a political party, or agents of the
candidate or committee, if the payment, or
any communication for which the payment
is made, is not made entirely independently
of the candidate, committee, or agents. For
purposes of the previous sentence, a payment
or communication not made entirely inde-
pendently of the candidate or committee in-
cludes any payment or communication made
pursuant to any general or particular under-
standing with, or pursuant to any commu-
nication with, the candidate, committee, or
agents about the payment or communica-
tion.
‘‘(2) NO FINDING OF COORDINATION BASED
SOLELY ON SHARING OF INFORMATION REGARD-
ING LEGISLATIVE OR POLICY POSITION.—For
purposes of this section, a payment shall not
be considered to be made by a person in co-
operation, consultation, or concert with, or
at the request or suggestion of, a candidate
or committee, solely on the grounds that the
person or the person’s agent engaged in dis-
cussions with the candidate or committee, or
with any agent of the candidate or com-
mittee, regarding that person’s position on a
legislative or policy matter (including urg-
ing the candidate or committee to adopt
that person’s position), so long as there is no
communication between the person and the
candidate or committee, or any agent of the
candidate or committee, regarding the can-
didate’s or committee’s campaign adver-
tising, message, strategy, policy, polling, al-
location of resources, fundraising, or other
campaign activities.
‘‘(3) NO EFFECT ON PARTY COORDINATION
STANDARD.—Nothing in this section shall be
construed to affect the determination of co-
ordination between a candidate and a polit-
ical committee of a political party for pur-
poses of section 315(d).
‘‘(4) NO SAFE HARBOR FOR USE OF FIRE-
WALL.—A person shall be determined to have
made a payment in cooperation, consulta-
tion, or concert with, or at the request or
suggestion of, a candidate or committee, in
accordance with this section without regard
to whether or not the person established and
used a firewall or similar procedures to re-
strict the sharing of information between in-
dividuals who are employed by or who are
serving as agents for the person making the
payment.
‘‘(c) PAYMENTS BY COORDINATED SPENDERS
FOR COVERED COMMUNICATIONS.—
‘‘(1) PAYMENTS MADE IN COOPERATION, CON-
SULTATION, OR CONCERT WITH CANDIDATES.—
For purposes of subsection (a)(1)(A), if the
person who makes a payment for a covered
communication, as defined in subsection (d),
is a coordinated spender under paragraph (2)
with respect to the candidate as described in
subsection (d)(1), the payment for the cov-
ered communication is made in cooperation,
consultation, or concert with the candidate.
‘‘(2) COORDINATED SPENDER DEFINED.—For
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘coordi-
nated spender’ means, with respect to a can-
didate or an authorized committee of a can-
didate, a person (other than a political com-
mittee of a political party) for which any of
the following applies:
‘‘(A) During the 4-year period ending on
the date on which the person makes the pay-
ment, the person was directly or indirectly
formed or established by or at the request or
suggestion of, or with the encouragement of,
the candidate (including an individual who
later becomes a candidate) or committee or
agents of the candidate or committee, in-
cluding with the approval of the candidate or
committee or agents of the candidate or
committee.
‘‘(B) The candidate or committee or any
agent of the candidate or committee solicits
funds, appears at a fundraising event, or en-
gages in other fundraising activity on the
person’s behalf during the election cycle in-
volved, including by providing the person
with names of potential donors or other lists
to be used by the person in engaging in fund-
raising activity, regardless of whether the
person pays fair market value for the names
or lists provided. For purposes of this sub-
paragraph, the term ‘election cycle’ means,
with respect to an election for Federal office,
the period beginning on the day after the
date of the most recent general election for
that office (or, if the general election re-
sulted in a runoff election, the date of the
runoff election) and ending on the date of the
next general election for that office (or, if
the general election resulted in a runoff elec-
tion, the date of the runoff election).
‘‘(C) The person is established, directed, or
managed by the candidate or committee or
by any person who, during the 4-year period
ending on the date on which the person
makes the payment, has been employed or
retained as a political, campaign media, or
fundraising adviser or consultant for the
candidate or committee or for any other en-
tity directly or indirectly controlled by the
candidate or committee, or has held a formal
position with the candidate or committee
(including a position as an employee of the
office of the candidate at any time the can-
didate held any Federal, State, or local pub-
lic office during the 4-year period).
‘‘(D) The person has retained the profes-
sional services of any person who, during the
2-year period ending on the date on which
the person makes the payment, has provided
or is providing professional services relating
to the campaign to the candidate or com-
mittee, without regard to whether the per-
son providing the professional services used
a firewall. For purposes of this subpara-
graph, the term ‘professional services’ in-
cludes any services in support of the can-
didate’s or committee’s campaign activities,
including advertising, message, strategy,
policy, polling, allocation of resources, fund-
raising, and campaign operations, but does
not include accounting or legal services.
‘‘(E) The person is established, directed, or
managed by a member of the immediate fam-
ily of the candidate, or the person or any of-
ficer or agent of the person has had more
than incidental discussions about the can-
didate’s campaign with a member of the im-
mediate family of the candidate. For pur-
poses of this subparagraph, the term ‘imme-
diate family’ has the meaning given such
term in section 9004(e) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986.
‘‘(d) COVERED COMMUNICATION DEFINED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, the term ‘covered communication’
means, with respect to a candidate or an au-
thorized committee of a candidate, a public
communication (as defined in section 301(22))
which—
‘‘(A) expressly advocates the election of
the candidate or the defeat of an opponent of
the candidate (or contains the functional
equivalent of express advocacy);
‘‘(B) promotes or supports the election of
the candidate, or attacks or opposes the elec-
tion of an opponent of the candidate (regard-
less of whether the communication expressly
advocates the election or defeat of a can-
didate or contains the functional equivalent
of express advocacy); or
‘‘(C) refers to the candidate or an opponent
of the candidate but is not described in sub-
paragraph (A) or subparagraph (B), but only
if the communication is disseminated during
the applicable election period.
‘‘(2) APPLICABLE ELECTION PERIOD.—In para-
graph (1)(C), the ‘applicable election period’
with respect to a communication means—
‘‘(A) in the case of a communication which
refers to a candidate in a general, special, or
runoff election, the 120-day period which
ends on the date of the election; or
‘‘(B) in the case of a communication which
refers to a candidate in a primary or pref-
erence election, or convention or caucus of a
political party that has authority to nomi-
nate a candidate, the 60-day period which
ends on the date of the election or conven-
tion or caucus.
‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULES FOR COMMUNICATIONS IN-
VOLVING CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATES.—For
purposes of this subsection, a public commu-
nication shall not be considered to be a cov-
ered communication with respect to a can-
didate for election for an office other than
the office of President or Vice President un-
less it is publicly disseminated or distributed
in the jurisdiction of the office the candidate
is seeking.
‘‘(e) PENALTY.—
‘‘(1) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT.—Any per-
son who knowingly and willfully commits a
violation of this Act by making a contribu-
tion which consists of a payment for a co-
ordinated expenditure shall be fined an
amount equal to the greater of—
‘‘(A) in the case of a person who makes a
contribution which consists of a payment for
a coordinated expenditure in an amount ex-
ceeding the applicable contribution limit
under this Act, 300 percent of the amount by
which the amount of the payment made by
the person exceeds such applicable contribu-
tion limit; or
‘‘(B) in the case of a person who is prohib-
ited under this Act from making a contribu-
tion in any amount, 300 percent of the
amount of the payment made by the person
for the coordinated expenditure.
‘‘(2) JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY.—Any di-
rector, manager, or officer of a person who is
subject to a penalty under paragraph (1)
shall be jointly and severally liable for any
amount of such penalty that is not paid by
the person prior to the expiration of the 1-
year period which begins on the date the
Commission imposes the penalty or the 1-
year period which begins on the date of the
final judgment following any judicial review
of the Commission’s action, whichever is
later.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) REPEAL OF EXISTING REGULATIONS ON CO-
ORDINATION.—Effective upon the expiration
of the 90-day period which begins on the date
of the enactment of this Act—
(A) the regulations on coordinated commu-
nications adopted by the Federal Election
Commission which are in effect on the date
of the enactment of this Act (as set forth in
11 CFR Part 109, Subpart C, under the head-
ing ‘‘Coordination’’) are repealed; and
(B) the Federal Election Commission shall
promulgate new regulations on coordinated
communications which reflect the amend-
ments made by this Act.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to payments made on or after the expiration
of the 120-day period which begins on the
date of the enactment of this Act, without
regard to whether or not the Federal Elec-
tion Commission has promulgated regula-
tions in accordance with paragraph (1)(B) as
of the expiration of such period.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2469
March 6, 2019
SEC. 6103. CLARIFICATION OF BAN ON FUND-
RAISING FOR SUPER PACS BY FED-
ERAL CANDIDATES AND OFFICE-
HOLDERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 323(e)(1) of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30125(e)(1)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of subpara-
graph (A);
(2) by striking the period at the end of sub-
paragraph (B) and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(C) solicit, receive, direct, or transfer
funds to or on behalf of any political com-
mittee which accepts donations or contribu-
tions that do not comply with the limita-
tions, prohibitions, and reporting require-
ments of this Act (or to or on behalf of any
account of a political committee which is es-
tablished for the purpose of accepting such
donations or contributions), or to or on be-
half of any political organization under sec-
tion 527 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
which accepts such donations or contribu-
tions (other than a committee of a State or
local political party or a candidate for elec-
tion for State or local office).’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to elections occurring after January 1,
2020.
Subtitle C—Severability
SEC. 6201. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title or amendment
made by this title, or the application of a
provision or amendment to any person or
circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this title and amendments
made by this title, and the application of the
provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
DIVISION C—ETHICS
TITLE VII—ETHICAL STANDARDS
Subtitle A—Supreme Court Ethics
Sec. 7001. Code of conduct for Federal
judges.
Subtitle B—Foreign Agents Registration
Sec. 7101. Establishment of FARA investiga-
tion and enforcement unit
within Department of Justice.
Sec. 7102. Authority to impose civil money
penalties.
Sec. 7103. Disclosure of transactions involv-
ing things of financial value
conferred on officeholders.
Sec. 7104. Ensuring online access to registra-
tion statements.
Subtitle C—Lobbying Disclosure Reform
Sec. 7201. Expanding scope of individuals
and activities subject to re-
quirements of Lobbying Disclo-
sure Act of 1995.
Subtitle D—Recusal of Presidential
Appointees
Sec. 7301. Recusal of appointees.
Subtitle E—Severability
Sec. 7401. Severability.
Subtitle A—Supreme Court Ethics
SEC. 7001. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR FEDERAL
JUDGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 57 of title 28,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 964. Code of conduct
‘‘Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this section, the Judicial
Conference shall issue a code of conduct,
which applies to each justice and judge of
the United States, except that the code of
conduct may include provisions that are ap-
plicable only to certain categories of judges
or justices.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 57 of title 28, United
States Code, is amended by adding after the
item related to section 963 the following:
‘‘964. Code of conduct.’’.
Subtitle B—Foreign Agents Registration
SEC. 7101. ESTABLISHMENT OF FARA INVESTIGA-
TION AND ENFORCEMENT UNIT
WITHIN DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
Section 8 of the Foreign Agents Registra-
tion Act of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 618) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
‘‘(i) DEDICATED ENFORCEMENT UNIT.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this sub-
section, the Attorney General shall establish
a unit within the counterespionage section
of the National Security Division of the De-
partment of Justice with responsibility for
the enforcement of this Act.
‘‘(2) POWERS.—The unit established under
this subsection is authorized to—
‘‘(A) take appropriate legal action against
individuals suspected of violating this Act;
and
‘‘(B) coordinate any such legal action with
the United States Attorney for the relevant
jurisdiction.
‘‘(3) CONSULTATION.—In operating the unit
established under this subsection, the Attor-
ney General shall, as appropriate, consult
with the Director of National Intelligence,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
Secretary of State.
‘‘(4) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out the activities of the unit estab-
lished under this subsection $10,000,000 for
fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal
year.’’.
SEC. 7102. AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE CIVIL MONEY
PENALTIES.
(a) ESTABLISHING AUTHORITY.—Section 8 of
the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938,
as amended (22 U.S.C. 618) is amended by in-
serting after subsection (c) the following new
subsection:
‘‘(d) CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES.—
‘‘(1) REGISTRATION STATEMENTS.—Whoever
fails to file timely or complete a registration
statement as provided under section 2(a)
shall be subject to a civil money penalty of
not more than $10,000 per violation.
‘‘(2) SUPPLEMENTS.—Whoever fails to file
timely or complete supplements as provided
under section 2(b) shall be subject to a civil
money penalty of not more than $1,000 per
violation.
‘‘(3) OTHER VIOLATIONS.—Whoever know-
ingly fails to—
‘‘(A) remedy a defective filing within 60
days after notice of such defect by the Attor-
ney General; or
‘‘(B) comply with any other provision of
this Act,
shall upon proof of such knowing violation
by a preponderance of the evidence, be sub-
ject to a civil money penalty of not more
than $200,000, depending on the extent and
gravity of the violation.
‘‘(4) NO FINES PAID BY FOREIGN PRIN-
CIPALS.—A civil money penalty paid under
paragraph (1) may not be paid, directly or in-
directly, by a foreign principal.
‘‘(5) USE OF FINES.—All civil money pen-
alties collected under this subsection shall
be used to defray the cost of the enforcement
unit established under subsection (i).’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 7103. DISCLOSURE OF TRANSACTIONS IN-
VOLVING THINGS OF FINANCIAL
VALUE CONFERRED ON OFFICE-
HOLDERS.
(a) REQUIRING AGENTS TO DISCLOSE KNOWN
TRANSACTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 2(a) of the For-
eign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as
amended (22 U.S.C. 612(a)) is amended—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (10) and
(11) as paragraphs (11) and (12); and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(10) To the extent that the registrant has
knowledge of any transaction which oc-
curred in the preceding 60 days and in which
the foreign principal for whom the registrant
is acting as an agent conferred on a Federal
or State officeholder any thing of financial
value, including a gift, profit, salary, favor-
able regulatory treatment, or any other di-
rect or indirect economic or financial ben-
efit, a detailed statement describing each
such transaction.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by paragraph (1) shall apply with re-
spect to statements filed on or after the ex-
piration of the 90-day period which begins on
the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b) SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE FOR CUR-
RENT REGISTRANTS.—Not later than the expi-
ration of the 90-day period which begins on
the date of the enactment of this Act, each
registrant who (prior to the expiration of
such period) filed a registration statement
with the Attorney General under section 2(a)
of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of
1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 612(a)) and who
has knowledge of any transaction described
in paragraph (10) of section 2(a) of such Act
(as added by subsection (a)(1)) which oc-
curred at any time during which the reg-
istrant was an agent of the foreign principal
involved, shall file with the Attorney Gen-
eral a supplement to such statement under
oath, on a form prescribed by the Attorney
General, containing a detailed statement de-
scribing each such transaction.
SEC. 7104. ENSURING ONLINE ACCESS TO REG-
ISTRATION STATEMENTS.
(a) REQUIRING STATEMENTS FILED BY REG-
ISTRANTS TO BE IN DIGITIZED FORMAT.—Sec-
tion 2(g) of the Foreign Agents Registration
Act of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 612(g)) is
amended by striking ‘‘in electronic form’’
and inserting ‘‘in a digitized format which
will enable the Attorney General to meet the
requirements of section 6(d)(1) (relating to
public access to an electronic database of
statements and updates)’’.
(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRONIC DATA-
BASE OF REGISTRATION STATEMENTS AND UP-
DATES.—Section 6(d)(1) of such Act (22 U.S.C.
616(d)(1)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘to the extent technically
practicable,’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘in-
cludes the information’’ and inserting ‘‘in-
cludes in a digitized format the informa-
tion’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to statements filed on or after the expiration
of the 180-day period which begins on the
date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle C—Lobbying Disclosure Reform
SEC. 7201. EXPANDING SCOPE OF INDIVIDUALS
AND ACTIVITIES SUBJECT TO RE-
QUIREMENTS OF LOBBYING DISCLO-
SURE ACT OF 1995.
(a) COVERAGE OF INDIVIDUALS PROVIDING
COUNSELING SERVICES.—
(1) TREATMENT OF COUNSELING SERVICES IN
SUPPORT OF LOBBYING CONTACTS AS LOBBYING
ACTIVITY.—Section 3(7) of such Act (2 U.S.C.
1602(7)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘efforts’’ and inserting
‘‘any efforts’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘research and other back-
ground work’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘counseling in support of such preparation
and planning activities, research, and other
background work’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2470 March 6, 2019
(2) TREATMENT OF LOBBYING CONTACT MADE
WITH SUPPORT OF COUNSELING SERVICES AS
LOBBYING CONTACT MADE BY INDIVIDUAL PRO-
VIDING SERVICES.—Section 3(8) of such Act (2
U.S.C. 1602(8)) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(C) TREATMENT OF PROVIDERS OF COUN-
SELING SERVICES.—Any individual, with au-
thority to direct or substantially influence a
lobbying contact or contacts made by an-
other individual, and for financial or other
compensation provides counseling services in
support of preparation and planning activi-
ties which are treated as lobbying activities
under paragraph (7) for that other individ-
ual’s lobbying contact or contacts and who
has knowledge that the specific lobbying
contact or contacts were made, shall be con-
sidered to have made the same lobbying con-
tact at the same time and in the same man-
ner to the covered executive branch official
or covered legislative branch official in-
volved.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to lobbying contacts made on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle D—Recusal of Presidential
Appointees
SEC. 7301. RECUSAL OF APPOINTEES.
Section 208 of title 18, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e)(1) Any officer or employee appointed
by the President shall recuse himself or her-
self from any particular matter involving
specific parties in which a party to that mat-
ter is—
‘‘(A) the President who appointed the offi-
cer or employee, which shall include any en-
tity in which the President has a substantial
interest; or
‘‘(B) the spouse of the President who ap-
pointed the officer or employee, which shall
include any entity in which the spouse of the
President has a substantial interest.
‘‘(2)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), if an
officer or employee is recused under para-
graph (1), a career appointee in the agency of
the officer or employee shall perform the
functions and duties of the officer or em-
ployee with respect to the matter.
‘‘(B)(i) In this subparagraph, the term
‘Commission’ means a board, commission, or
other agency for which the authority of the
agency is vested in more than 1 member.
‘‘(ii) If the recusal of a member of a Com-
mission from a matter under paragraph (1)
would result in there not being a statutorily
required quorum of members of the Commis-
sion available to participate in the matter,
notwithstanding such statute or any other
provision of law, the members of the Com-
mission not recused under paragraph (1)
may—
‘‘(I) consider the matter without regard to
the quorum requirement under such statute;
‘‘(II) delegate the authorities and respon-
sibilities of the Commission with respect to
the matter to a subcommittee of the Com-
mission; or
‘‘(III) designate an officer or employee of
the Commission who was not appointed by
the President who appointed the member of
the Commission recused from the matter to
exercise the authorities and duties of the
recused member with respect to the matter.
‘‘(3) Any officer or employee who violates
paragraph (1) shall be subject to the pen-
alties set forth in section 216.
‘‘(4) For purposes of this section, the term
‘particular matter’ shall have the meaning
given the term in section 207(i).’’.
Subtitle E—Severability
SEC. 7401. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title or amendment
made by this title, or the application of a
provision or amendment to any person or
circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this title and amendments
made by this title, and the application of the
provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
TITLE VIII—ETHICS REFORMS FOR THE
PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENT, AND FED-
ERAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Subtitle A—Executive Branch Conflict of
Interest
Sec. 8001. Short title.
Sec. 8002. Restrictions on private sector pay-
ment for government service.
Sec. 8003. Requirements relating to slowing
the revolving door.
Sec. 8004. Prohibition of procurement offi-
cers accepting employment
from government contractors.
Sec. 8005. Revolving door restrictions on em-
ployees moving into the private
sector.
Subtitle B—Presidential Conflicts of Interest
Sec. 8011. Short title.
Sec. 8012. Divestiture of personal financial
interests of the President and
Vice President that pose a po-
tential conflict of interest.
Sec. 8013. Initial financial disclosure.
Sec. 8014. Contracts by the President or Vice
President.
Subtitle C—White House Ethics
Transparency
Sec. 8021. Short title.
Sec. 8022. Procedure for waivers and author-
izations relating to ethics re-
quirements.
Subtitle D—Executive Branch Ethics
Enforcement
Sec. 8031. Short title.
Sec. 8032. Reauthorization of the Office of
Government Ethics.
Sec. 8033. Tenure of the Director of the Of-
fice of Government Ethics.
Sec. 8034. Duties of Director of the Office of
Government Ethics.
Sec. 8035. Agency Ethics Officials Training
and Duties.
Subtitle E—Conflicts From Political
Fundraising
Sec. 8041. Short title.
Sec. 8042. Disclosure of certain types of con-
tributions.
Subtitle F—Transition Team Ethics
Sec. 8051. Short title.
Sec. 8052. Presidential transition ethics pro-
grams.
Subtitle G—Ethics Pledge For Senior
Executive Branch Employees
Sec. 8061. Short title.
Sec. 8062. Ethics pledge requirement for sen-
ior executive branch employees.
Subtitle H—Severability
Sec. 8071. Severability.
Subtitle A—Executive Branch Conflict of
Interest
SEC. 8001. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Execu-
tive Branch Conflict of Interest Act’’.
SEC. 8002. RESTRICTIONS ON PRIVATE SECTOR
PAYMENT FOR GOVERNMENT SERV-
ICE.
Section 209 of title 18, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a),
(A) by striking ‘‘any salary’’ and inserting
‘‘any salary (including a bonus)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘as compensation for his
services’’ and inserting ‘‘at any time, as
compensation for serving’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ after ‘‘(b)’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), a pen-
sion, retirement, group life, health or acci-
dent insurance, profit-sharing, stock bonus,
or other employee welfare or benefit plan
that makes payment of any portion of com-
pensation contingent on accepting a position
in the United States Government shall not
be considered bona fide.’’.
SEC. 8003. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO SLOW-
ING THE REVOLVING DOOR.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Ethics in Govern-
ment Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘TITLE VI—ENHANCED REQUIREMENTS
FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES
‘‘§ 601. Definitions
‘‘In this title:
‘‘(1) COVERED AGENCY.—The term ‘covered
agency’—
‘‘(A) means an Executive agency, as de-
fined in section 105 of title 5, United States
Code, the Postal Service and the Postal Rate
Commission, but does not include the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office or the Gov-
ernment of the District of Columbia; and
‘‘(B) shall include the Executive Office of
the President.
‘‘(2) COVERED EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘cov-
ered employee’ means an officer or employee
referred to in paragraph (2) of section 207(c)
or paragraph (1) of section 207(d) of title 18,
United States Code.
‘‘(3) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘Director’ means
the Director of the Office of Government
Ethics.
‘‘(4) EXECUTIVE BRANCH.—The term ‘execu-
tive branch’ has the meaning given that
term in section 109.
‘‘(5) FORMER CLIENT.—The term ‘former cli-
ent’—
‘‘(A) means a person for whom a covered
employee served personally as an agent, at-
torney, or consultant during the 2-year pe-
riod ending on the date before the date on
which the covered employee begins service in
the Federal Government; and
‘‘(B) does not include any agency or instru-
mentality of the Federal Government.
‘‘(6) FORMER EMPLOYER.—The term ‘former
employer’—
‘‘(A) means a person for whom a covered
employee served as an employee, officer, di-
rector, trustee, agent, attorney, consultant,
or contractor during the 2 year period ending
on the date before the date on which the cov-
ered employee begins service in the Federal
Government; and
‘‘(B) does not include—
‘‘(i) an entity in the Federal Government,
including an executive branch agency;
‘‘(ii) a State or local government;
‘‘(iii) the District of Columbia;
‘‘(iv) an Indian tribe, as defined in section
4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304); or
‘‘(v) the government of a territory or pos-
session of the United States.
‘‘(7) PARTICULAR MATTER.—The term ‘par-
ticular matter’ has the meaning given that
term in section 207(i) of title 18, United
States Code.
‘‘§ 602. Conflict of interest and eligibility
standards
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A covered employee
may not participate personally and substan-
tially in a particular matter in which the
covered employee knows or reasonably
should have known that a former employer
or former client of the covered employee has
a financial interest.
‘‘(b) WAIVER.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) AGENCY HEADS.—With respect to the
head of a covered agency who is a covered
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2471
March 6, 2019
employee, the Designated Agency Ethics Of-
ficial for the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent, in consultation with the Director, may
grant a written waiver of the restrictions
under subsection (a) before the head engages
in the action otherwise prohibited by such
subsection if the Designated Agency Ethics
Official for the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent determines and certifies in writing
that, in light of all the relevant cir-
cumstances, the interest of the Federal Gov-
ernment in the head’s participation out-
weighs the concern that a reasonable person
may question the integrity of the agency’s
programs or operations.
‘‘(B) OTHER COVERED EMPLOYEES.—With re-
spect to any covered employee not covered
by subparagraph (A), the head of the covered
agency employing the covered employee, in
consultation with the Director, may grant a
written waiver of the restrictions under sub-
section (a) before the covered employee en-
gages in the action otherwise prohibited by
such subsection if the head of the covered
agency determines and certifies in writing
that, in light of all the relevant cir-
cumstances, the interest of the Federal Gov-
ernment in the covered employee’s participa-
tion outweighs the concern that a reasonable
person may question the integrity of the
agency’s programs or operations.
‘‘(2) PUBLICATION.—For any waiver granted
under paragraph (1), the individual who
granted the waiver shall—
‘‘(A) provide a copy of the waiver to the Di-
rector not less than 48 hours after the waiver
is granted; and
‘‘(B) publish the waiver on the website of
the applicable agency within 30 calendar
days after granting such waiver.
‘‘(3) REVIEW.—Upon receiving a written
waiver under paragraph (1)(A), the Director
shall—
‘‘(A) review the waiver to determine
whether the Director has any objection to
the issuance of the waiver; and
‘‘(B) if the Director so objects—
‘‘(i) provide reasons for the objection in
writing to the head of the agency who grant-
ed the waiver not less than 15 calendar days
after the waiver was granted; and
‘‘(ii) publish the written objection on the
website of the Office of Government Ethics
not less than 30 calendar days after the waiv-
er was granted.
‘‘§ 603. Penalties and injunctions
‘‘(a) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Any person who violates
section 602 shall be fined under title 18,
United States Code, imprisoned for not more
than 1 year, or both.
‘‘(2) WILLFUL VIOLATIONS.—Any person who
willfully violates section 602 shall be fined
under title 18, United States Code, impris-
oned for not more than 5 years, or both.
‘‘(b) CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
may bring a civil action in an appropriate
district court of the United States against
any person who violates, or whom the Attor-
ney General has reason to believe is engag-
ing in conduct that violates, section 602.
‘‘(2) CIVIL PENALTY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the court finds by a
preponderance of the evidence that a person
violated section 602, the court shall impose a
civil penalty of not more than the greater
of—
‘‘(i) $100,000 for each violation; or
‘‘(ii) the amount of compensation the per-
son received or was offered for the conduct
constituting the violation.
‘‘(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—A civil pen-
alty under this subsection may be in addi-
tion to any other criminal or civil statutory,
common law, or administrative remedy
available to the United States or any other
person.
‘‘(3) INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In a civil action brought
under paragraph (1) against a person, the At-
torney General may petition the court for an
order prohibiting the person from engaging
in conduct that violates section 602.
‘‘(B) STANDARD.—The court may issue an
order under subparagraph (A) if the court
finds by a preponderance of the evidence that
the conduct of the person violates section
602.
‘‘(C) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The filing of
a petition seeking injunctive relief under
this paragraph shall not preclude any other
remedy that is available by law to the
United States or any other person.’’.
SEC. 8004. PROHIBITION OF PROCUREMENT OFFI-
CERS ACCEPTING EMPLOYMENT
FROM GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
(a) EXPANSION OF PROHIBITION ON ACCEPT-
ANCE BY FORMER OFFICIALS OF COMPENSATION
FROM CONTRACTORS.—Section 2104 of title 41,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘or consultant’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘attorney, consultant, subcontractor, or
lobbyist’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘one year’’ and inserting ‘‘2
years’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘person-
ally made for the Federal agency’’ and in-
serting ‘‘participated personally and sub-
stantially in’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) PROHIBITION ON COMPENSATION FROM
AFFILIATES AND SUBCONTRACTORS.—A former
official responsible for a Government con-
tract referred to in paragraph (1), (2), or (3)
of subsection (a) may not accept compensa-
tion for 2 years after awarding the contract
from any division, affiliate, or subcontractor
of the contractor.’’.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR PROCUREMENT OFFI-
CERS TO DISCLOSE JOB OFFERS MADE ON BE-
HALF OF RELATIVES.—Section 2103(a) of title
41, United States Code, is amended in the
matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting
after ‘‘that official’’ the following: ‘‘, or for
a relative (as defined in section 3110 of title
5) of that official,’’.
(c) REQUIREMENT ON AWARD OF GOVERN-
MENT CONTRACTS TO FORMER EMPLOYERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 21 of division B of
subtitle I of title 41, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘§ 2108. Prohibition on involvement by cer-
tain former contractor employees in pro-
curements
‘‘An employee of the Federal Government
may not participate personally and substan-
tially in any award of a contract to, or the
administration of a contract awarded to, a
contractor that is a former employer of the
employee during the 2-year period beginning
on the date on which the employee leaves
the employment of the contractor.’’.
(2) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of sections for chapter 21 of
title 41, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new item:
‘‘2108. Prohibition on involvement by cer-
tain former contractor employ-
ees in procurements.’’.
(d) REGULATIONS.—The Director of the Of-
fice of Government Ethics, in consultation
with the Administrator of General Services,
shall promulgate regulations to carry out
and ensure the enforcement of chapter 21 of
title 41, United States Code, as amended by
this section.
(e) MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE.—The Ad-
ministrator of General Services, in consulta-
tion with designated agency ethics officials
(as that term is defined in section 109(3) of
the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.)), shall monitor compliance with
such chapter 21 by individuals and agencies.
SEC. 8005. REVOLVING DOOR RESTRICTIONS ON
EMPLOYEES MOVING INTO THE PRI-
VATE SECTOR.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (c) of section
207 of title 18, United States Code, is amend-
ed—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘ONE-YEAR’’ and inserting ‘‘TWO-YEAR’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘1 year’’ in
each instance and inserting ‘‘2 years’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ‘‘1-
year’’ and inserting ‘‘2-year’’.
(b) APPLICATION.—The amendments made
by subsection (a) shall apply to any indi-
vidual covered by subsection (c) of section
207 of title 18, United States Code, separating
from the civil service on or after the date of
enactment of this Act.
Subtitle B—Presidential Conflicts of Interest
SEC. 8011. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Presi-
dential Conflicts of Interest Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 8012. DIVESTITURE OF PERSONAL FINAN-
CIAL INTERESTS OF THE PRESIDENT
AND VICE PRESIDENT THAT POSE A
POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Ethics in Govern-
ment Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended
by adding after title VI (as added by section
8003) the following:
‘‘TITLE VII—DIVESTITURE OF FINANCIAL
CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS OF THE
PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT
‘‘§ 701. Divestiture of financial interests pos-
ing a conflict of interest
‘‘(a) APPLICABILITY TO THE PRESIDENT AND
VICE-PRESIDENT.—The President and Vice-
President shall, within 30 days of assuming
office, divest of all financial interests that
pose a conflict of interest because the Presi-
dent or Vice President, the spouse, depend-
ent child, or general partner of the President
or Vice President, or any person or organiza-
tion with whom the President or Vice Presi-
dent is negotiating or has any arrangement
concerning prospective employment, has a
financial interest, by—
‘‘(1) converting each such interest to cash
or other investment that meets the criteria
established by the Director of the Office of
Government Ethics through regulation as
being an interest so remote or inconsequen-
tial as not to pose a conflict; or
‘‘(2) placing each such interest in a quali-
fied blind trust as defined in section 102(f)(3)
or a diversified trust under section
102(f)(4)(B).
‘‘(b) DISCLOSURE EXEMPTION.—Subsection
(a) shall not apply if the President or Vice
President complies with section 102.’’.
(b) ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES.—Section
102(a) of the Ethics in Government Act of
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(9) With respect to any such report filed
by the President or Vice President, for any
corporation, company, firm, partnership, or
other business enterprise in which the Presi-
dent, Vice President, or the spouse or de-
pendent child of the President or Vice Presi-
dent, has a significant financial interest—
‘‘(A) the name of each other person who
holds a significant financial interest in the
firm, partnership, association, corporation,
or other entity;
‘‘(B) the value, identity, and category of
each liability in excess of $10,000; and
‘‘(C) a description of the nature and value
of any assets with a value of $10,000 or
more.’’.
(c) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director of the Office of Government Ethics
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2472 March 6, 2019
shall promulgate regulations to define the
criteria required by section 701(a)(1) of the
Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (as added
subsection (a)) and the term ‘‘significant fi-
nancial interest’’ for purposes of section
102(a)(9) of the Ethics in Government Act (as
added by subsection (b)).
SEC. 8013. INITIAL FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
Subsection (a) of section 101 of the Ethics
in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is
amended by striking ‘‘position’’ and adding
at the end the following: ‘‘position, with the
exception of the President and Vice Presi-
dent, who must file a new report.’’.
SEC. 8014. CONTRACTS BY THE PRESIDENT OR
VICE PRESIDENT.
(a) AMENDMENT.—Section 431 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by inserting
‘‘the President, Vice President, or a’’ after
‘‘Contracts by’’; and
(2) in the first undesignated paragraph, by
inserting ‘‘the President or Vice President,’’
after ‘‘Whoever, being’’.
(b) TABLE OF SECTIONS AMENDMENT.—The
table of sections for chapter 23 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by striking
the item relating to section 431 and inserting
the following:
‘‘431. Contracts by the President, Vice Presi-
dent, or a Member of Con-
gress.’’.
Subtitle C—White House Ethics
Transparency
SEC. 8021. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘White
House Ethics Transparency Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 8022. PROCEDURE FOR WAIVERS AND AU-
THORIZATIONS RELATING TO ETH-
ICS REQUIREMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, not later than 30 days
after an officer or employee issues or ap-
proves a waiver or authorization pursuant to
section 3 of Executive Order 13770 (82 6 Fed.
Reg. 9333), or any subsequent similar order,
such officer or employee shall—
(1) transmit a written copy of such waiver
or authorization to the Director of the Office
of Government Ethics; and
(2) make a written copy of such waiver or
authorization available to the public on the
website of the employing agency of the cov-
ered employee.
(b) RETROACTIVE APPLICATION.—In the case
of a waiver or authorization described in sub-
section (a) issued during the period begin-
ning on January 20, 2017, and ending on the
date of enactment of this Act, the issuing of-
ficer or employee of such waiver or author-
ization shall comply with the requirements
of paragraphs (1) and (2) of such subsection
not later than 30 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
(c) OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS PUBLIC
AVAILABILITY.—Not later than 30 days after
receiving a written copy of a waiver or au-
thorization under subsection (a)(1), the Di-
rector of the Office of Government Ethics
shall make such waiver or authorization
available to the public on the website of the
Office of Government Ethics.
(d) DEFINITION OF COVERED EMPLOYEE.—In
this section, the term ‘‘covered employee’’—
(1) means a non-career Presidential or Vice
Presidential appointee, non-career appointee
in the Senior Executive Service (or other
SES-type system), or an appointee to a posi-
tion that has been excepted from the com-
petitive service by reason of being of a con-
fidential or policymaking character (Sched-
ule C and other positions excepted under
comparable criteria) in an executive agency;
and
(2) does not include any individual ap-
pointed as a member of the Senior Foreign
Service or solely as a uniformed service com-
missioned officer.
Subtitle D—Executive Branch Ethics
Enforcement
SEC. 8031. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Execu-
tive Branch Comprehensive Ethics Enforce-
ment Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 8032. REAUTHORIZATION OF THE OFFICE OF
GOVERNMENT ETHICS.
Section 405 of the Ethics in Government
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by
striking ‘‘fiscal year 2007’’ and inserting ‘‘fis-
cal years 2019 through 2023.’’.
SEC. 8033. TENURE OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE
OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS.
Section 401(b) of the Ethics in Government
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by
striking the period at the end and inserting
‘‘, subject to removal only for inefficiency,
neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office. The
Director may continue to serve beyond the
expiration of the term until a successor is
appointed and has qualified, except that the
Director may not continue to serve for more
than one year after the date on which the
term would otherwise expire under this sub-
section.’’.
SEC. 8034. DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE
OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 402(a) of the Eth-
ics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)
is amended in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘, in
consultation with the Office of Personnel
Management,’’.
(b) RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTOR.—
Section 402(b) of the Ethics in Government
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘developing, in consulta-
tion with the Attorney General and the Of-
fice of Personnel Management, rules and reg-
ulations to be promulgated by the President
or the Director’’ and inserting ‘‘developing
and promulgating rules and regulations’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘title II’’ and inserting
‘‘title I’’;
(2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) providing mandatory education and
training programs for designated agency eth-
ics officials, which may be delegated to each
agency or the White House Counsel as
deemed appropriate by the Director;’’;
(3) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘title II’’
and inserting ‘‘title I’’;
(4) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘prob-
lems’’ and inserting ‘‘issues’’;
(5) in paragraph (6)—
(A) by striking ‘‘issued by the President or
the Director’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘problems’’ and inserting
‘‘issues’’;
(6) in paragraph (7)—
(A) by striking ‘‘, when requested,’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘conflict of interest prob-
lems’’ and inserting ‘‘conflicts of interest, as
well as other ethics issues’’;
(7) in paragraph (9)—
(A) by striking ‘‘ordering’’ and inserting
‘‘receiving allegations of violations of this
Act or regulations of the Office of Govern-
ment Ethics and, when necessary, inves-
tigating an allegation to determine whether
a violation occurred, and ordering’’; and
(B) by inserting before the semi-colon the
following: ‘‘, and recommending appropriate
disciplinary action’’;
(8) in paragraph (12)—
(A) by striking ‘‘evaluating, with the as-
sistance of’’ and inserting ‘‘promulgating,
with input from’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘the need for’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘conflict of interest and
ethical problems’’ and inserting ‘‘conflict of
interest and ethics issues’’;
(9) in paragraph (13)—
(A) by striking ‘‘with the Attorney Gen-
eral’’ and inserting ‘‘with the Inspectors
General and the Attorney General’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘violations of the conflict
of interest laws’’ and inserting ‘‘conflict of
interest issues and allegations of violations
of ethics laws and regulations and this Act’’;
and
(C) by striking ‘‘, as required by section 535
of title 28, United States Code’’;
(10) in paragraph (14), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(11) in paragraph (15)—
(A) by striking ‘‘, in consultation with the
Office of Personnel Management,’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘title II’’ and inserting
‘‘title I’’; and
(C) by striking the period at the end and
inserting a semicolon; and
(12) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(16) directing and providing final ap-
proval, when determined appropriate by the
Director, for designated agency ethics offi-
cials regarding the resolution of conflicts of
interest as well as any other ethics issues
under the purview of this Act in individual
cases; and
‘‘(17) reviewing and approving, when deter-
mined appropriate by the Director, any
recusals, exemptions, or waivers from the
conflicts of interest and ethics laws, rules,
and regulations and making approved
recusals, exemptions, and waivers made pub-
licly available by the relevant agency avail-
able in a central location on the official
website of the Office of Government Eth-
ics.’’.
(c) WRITTEN PROCEDURES.—Paragraph (1) of
section 402(d) of the Ethics in Government
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘, by the exercise of any au-
thority otherwise available to the Director
under this title,’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘the agency is’’; and
(3) by inserting after ‘‘filed by’’ the fol-
lowing: ‘‘, or written documentation of
recusals, waivers, or ethics authorizations
relating to,’’.
(d) CORRECTIVE ACTIONS.—Section 402(f) of
the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in clause (i) of subparagraph (A), by
striking ‘‘of such agency’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting at the
end ‘‘and determine that a violation of this
Act has occurred and issue appropriate ad-
ministrative or legal remedies as prescribed
in paragraph (2)’’;
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (ii)—
(I) in subclause (I)—
(aa) by inserting ‘‘to the President or the
President’s designee if the matter involves
employees of the Executive Office of the
President or’’ after ‘‘may recommend’’;
(bb) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; and
(II) in subclause (II)—
(aa) by inserting ‘‘President or’’ after ‘‘de-
termines that the’’; and
(bb) by adding ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(ii) in subclause (II) of clause (iii)—
(I) by striking ‘‘notify, in writing,’’ and in-
serting ‘‘advise the President or order’’;
(II) by inserting ‘‘to take appropriate dis-
ciplinary action including reprimand, sus-
pension, demotion, or dismissal against the
officer or employee (provided, however, that
any order issued by the Director shall not af-
fect an employee’s right to appeal a discipli-
nary action under applicable law, regulation,
collective bargaining agreement, or contrac-
tual provision)’’ after ‘‘employee’s agency’’;
and
(III) by striking ‘‘of the officer’s or em-
ployee’s noncompliance, except that, if the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2473
March 6, 2019
officer or employee involved is the agency
head, the notification shall instead be sub-
mitted to the President and Congress and’’;
and
(iii) by striking clause (iv);
(B) in subparagraph (B)(i)—
(i) by striking ‘‘subparagraph (A)(iii) or
(iv)’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraph (A)’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘(I)’’ before ‘‘In order to’’;
and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(II)(aa) The Director may secure directly
from any agency information necessary to
enable the Director to carry out this Act.
Upon request of the Director, the head of
such agency shall furnish that information
to the Director.
‘‘(bb) The Director may require by sub-
poena the production of all information, doc-
uments, reports, answers, records, accounts,
papers, and other data in any medium and
documentary evidence necessary in the per-
formance of the functions assigned by this
Act, which subpoena, in the case of refusal to
obey, shall be enforceable by order of any ap-
propriate United States district court.’’;
(C) in subparagraph (B)(ii)(I)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Subject to clause (iv) of
this subparagraph, before’’ and inserting
‘‘Before’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘subparagraphs (A) (iii) or
(iv)’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraph (A)(iii)’’;
(D) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking
‘‘Subject to clause (iv) of this subparagraph,
before’’ and inserting ‘‘Before’’; and
(E) in subparagraph (B)(iv)—
(i) by striking ‘‘title 2’’ and inserting ‘‘title
I’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘section 206’’ and inserting
‘‘section 106’’; and
(3) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘(iv),’’.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—Section 402 of the Ethics
in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) For purposes of this title—
‘‘(1) the term ‘agency’ shall include the Ex-
ecutive Office of the President; and
‘‘(2) the term ‘officer or employee’ shall in-
clude any individual occupying a position,
providing any official services, or acting in
an advisory capacity, in the White House or
the Executive Office of the President.
‘‘(h) In this title, a reference to the head of
an agency shall include the President or the
President’s designee.
‘‘(i) The Director shall not be required to
obtain the prior approval, comment, or re-
view of any officer or agency of the United
States, including the Office of Management
and Budget, before submitting to Congress,
or any committee or subcommittee thereof,
any information, reports, recommendations,
testimony, or comments, if such submissions
include a statement indicating that the
views expressed therein are those of the Di-
rector and do not necessarily represent the
views of the President.’’.
SEC. 8035. AGENCY ETHICS OFFICIALS TRAINING
AND DUTIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 403 of the Ethics
in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by adding a period at
the end of the matter following paragraph
(2); and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c)(1) All designated agency ethics offi-
cials and alternate designated agency ethics
officials shall register with the Director as
well as with the appointing authority of the
official.
‘‘(2) The Director shall provide ethics edu-
cation and training to all designated and al-
ternate designated agency ethics officials in
a time and manner deemed appropriate by
the Director.
‘‘(3) Each designated agency ethics official
and each alternate designated agency ethics
official shall biannually attend ethics edu-
cation and training, as provided by the Di-
rector under paragraph (2).
‘‘(d) Each Designated Agency Ethics Offi-
cial, including the Designated Agency Ethics
Official for the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent—
‘‘(1) shall provide to the Director, in writ-
ing, in a searchable, sortable, and
downloadable format, all approvals, author-
izations, certifications, compliance reviews,
determinations, directed divestitures, public
financial disclosure reports, notices of defi-
ciency in compliance, records related to the
approval or acceptance of gifts, recusals, reg-
ulatory or statutory advisory opinions, waiv-
ers, including waivers under section 207 or
208 of title 18, United States Code, and any
other records designated by the Director, un-
less disclosure is prohibited by law;
‘‘(2) shall, for all information described in
paragraph (1) that is permitted to be dis-
closed to the public under law, make the in-
formation available to the public by pub-
lishing the information on the website of the
Office of Government Ethics, providing a
link to download an electronic copy of the
information, or providing printed paper cop-
ies of such information to the public; and
‘‘(3) may charge a reasonable fee for the
cost of providing paper copies of the infor-
mation pursuant to paragraph (2).
‘‘(e)(1) For all information that is provided
by an agency to the Director under para-
graph (1) of subsection (d), the Director shall
make the information available to the public
in a searchable, sortable, downloadable for-
mat by publishing the information on the
website of the Office of Government Ethics
or providing a link to download an electronic
copy of the information.
‘‘(2) The Director may, upon request, pro-
vide printed paper copies of the information
published under paragraph (1) and charge a
reasonable fee for the cost of printing such
copies.’’.
(b) REPEAL.—Section 408 of the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is
hereby repealed.
Subtitle E—Conflicts From Political
Fundraising
SEC. 8041. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Con-
flicts from Political Fundraising Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 8042. DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN TYPES OF
CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 109 of the Ethics
in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through
(19) as paragraphs (5) through (22), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) ‘covered contribution’ means a pay-
ment, advance, forbearance, rendering, or de-
posit of money, or any thing of value—
‘‘(A)(i) that—
‘‘(I) is—
‘‘(aa) made by or on behalf of a covered in-
dividual; or
‘‘(bb) solicited in writing by or at the re-
quest of a covered individual; and
‘‘(II) is made—
‘‘(aa) to a political organization, as defined
in section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986; or
‘‘(bb) to an organization—
‘‘(AA) that is described in paragraph (4) or
(6) of section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under sec-
tion 501(a) of such Code; and
‘‘(BB) that promotes or opposes changes in
Federal laws or regulations that are (or
would be) administered by the agency in
which the covered individual has been nomi-
nated for appointment to a covered position
or is serving in a covered position; or
‘‘(ii) that is—
‘‘(I) solicited in writing by or on behalf of
a covered individual; and
‘‘(II) made—
‘‘(aa) by an individual or entity the activi-
ties of which are subject to Federal laws or
regulations that are (or would be) adminis-
tered by the agency in which the covered in-
dividual has been nominated for appoint-
ment to a covered position or is serving in a
covered position; and
‘‘(bb) to—
‘‘(AA) a political organization, as defined
in section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986; or
‘‘(BB) an organization that is described in
paragraph (4) or (6) of section 501(c) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from
tax under section 501(a) of such Code; and
‘‘(B) that is made to an organization de-
scribed in item (aa) or (bb) of clause (i)(II) or
clause (ii)(II)(bb) of subparagraph (A) for
which the total amount of such payments,
advances, forbearances, renderings, or depos-
its of money, or any thing of value, during
the calendar year in which it is made is not
less than the contribution limitation in ef-
fect under section 315(a)(1)(A) of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30116(a)(1)(A)) for elections occurring during
such calendar year;
‘‘(3) ‘covered individual’ means an indi-
vidual who has been nominated or appointed
to a covered position; and
‘‘(4) ‘covered position’—
‘‘(A) means—
‘‘(i) a position described under sections 5312
through 5316 of title 5, United States Code;
‘‘(ii) a position placed in level IV or V of
the Executive Schedule under section 5317 of
title 5, United States Code;
‘‘(iii) a position as a limited term ap-
pointee, limited emergency appointee, or
noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive
Service, as defined under paragraphs (5), (6),
and (7), respectively, of section 3132(a) of
title 5, United States Code; and
‘‘(iv) a position in the executive branch of
the Government of a confidential or policy-
determining character under schedule C of
subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of
Federal Regulations; and
‘‘(B) does not include a position if the indi-
vidual serving in the position has been ex-
cluded from the application of section
101(f)(5);’’.
(b) DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.—The Ethics
in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is
amended—
(1) in section 101—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ before ‘‘Within’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘unless’’ and inserting
‘‘and, if the individual is assuming a covered
position, the information described in sec-
tion 102(j), except that, subject to paragraph
(2), the individual shall not be required to
file a report if’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) If an individual has left a position de-
scribed in subsection (f) that is not a covered
position and, within 30 days, assumes a posi-
tion that is a covered position, the indi-
vidual shall, within 30 days of assuming the
covered position, file a report containing the
information described in section
102(j)(2)(A).’’;
(B) in subsection (b)(1), in the first sen-
tence, by inserting ‘‘and the information re-
quired by section 102(j)’’ after ‘‘described in
section 102(b)’’;
(C) in subsection (d), by inserting ‘‘and, if
the individual is serving in a covered posi-
tion, the information required by section
102(j)(2)(A)’’ after ‘‘described in section
102(a)’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2474 March 6, 2019
(D) in subsection (e), by inserting ‘‘and, if
the individual was serving in a covered posi-
tion, the information required by section
102(j)(2)(A)’’ after ‘‘described in section
102(a)’’; and
(2) in section 102—
(A) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘Political
campaign funds’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as
provided in subsection (j), political campaign
funds’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(j)(1) In this subsection—
‘‘(A) the term ‘applicable period’ means—
‘‘(i) with respect to a report filed pursuant
to subsection (a) or (b) of section 101, the
year of filing and the 4 calendar years pre-
ceding the year of the filing; and
‘‘(ii) with respect to a report filed pursuant
to subsection (d) or (e) of section 101, the pre-
ceding calendar year; and
‘‘(B) the term ‘covered gift’ means a gift
that—
‘‘(i) is made to a covered individual, the
spouse of a covered individual, or the depend-
ent child of a covered individual;
‘‘(ii) is made by an entity described in item
(aa) or (bb) of section 109(2)(A)(i)(II); and
‘‘(iii) would have been required to be re-
ported under subsection (a)(2) if the covered
individual had been required to file a report
under section 101(d) with respect to the cal-
endar year during which the gift was made.
‘‘(2)(A) A report filed pursuant to sub-
section (a), (b), (d), or (e) of section 101 by a
covered individual shall include, for each
covered contribution during the applicable
period—
‘‘(i) the date on which the covered con-
tribution was made;
‘‘(ii) if applicable, the date or dates on
which the covered contribution was solic-
ited;
‘‘(iii) the value of the covered contribution;
‘‘(iv) the name of the person making the
covered contribution; and
‘‘(v) the name of the person receiving the
covered contribution.
‘‘(B)(i) Subject to clause (ii), a covered con-
tribution made by or on behalf of, or that
was solicited in writing by or on behalf of, a
covered individual shall constitute a conflict
of interest, or an appearance thereof, with
respect to the official duties of the covered
individual.
‘‘(ii) The Director of the Office of Govern-
ment Ethics may exempt a covered contribu-
tion from the application of clause (i) if the
Director determines the circumstances of
the solicitation and making of the covered
contribution do not present a risk of a con-
flict of interest and the exemption of the
covered contribution would not affect ad-
versely the integrity of the Government or
the public’s confidence in the integrity of
the Government.
‘‘(3) A report filed pursuant to subsection
(a) or (b) of section 101 by a covered indi-
vidual shall include the information de-
scribed in subsection (a)(2) with respect to
each covered gift received during the appli-
cable period.’’.
(c) PROVISION OF REPORTS AND ETHICS
AGREEMENTS TO CONGRESS.—Section 105 of
the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(e) Not later than 30 days after receiving
a written request from the Chairman or
Ranking Member of a committee or sub-
committee of either House of Congress, the
Director of the Office of Government Ethics
shall provide to the Chairman and Ranking
Member each report filed under this title by
the covered individual and any ethics agree-
ment entered into between the agency and
the covered individual.’’.
(d) RULES ON ETHICS AGREEMENTS.—The Di-
rector of the Office of Government Ethics
shall promptly issue rules regarding how an
agency in the executive branch shall address
information required to be disclosed under
the amendments made by this subtitle in
drafting ethics agreements between the
agency and individuals appointed to posi-
tions in the agency.
(e) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—
(1) The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(A) in section 101(f)—
(i) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘section
109(12)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 109(15)’’;
(ii) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘section
109(13)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 109(16)’’;
(iii) in paragraph (11), by striking ‘‘section
109(10)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 109(13)’’; and
(iv) in paragraph (12), by striking ‘‘section
109(8)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 109(11)’’;
(B) in section 103(l)—
(i) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘section
109(12)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 109(15)’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘section
109(13)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 109(16)’’; and
(C) in section 105(b)(3)(A), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 109(8) or 109(10)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
109(11) or 109(13)’’.
(2) Section 3(4)(D) of the Lobbying Disclo-
sure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602(4)(D)) is
amended by striking ‘‘section 109(13)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘section 109(16)’’.
(3) Section 21A of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u–1) is amended—
(A) in subsection (g)(2)(B)(ii), by striking
‘‘section 109(11) of the Ethics in Government
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 109(11)))’’ and in-
serting ‘‘section 109 of the Ethics in Govern-
ment Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.))’’; and
(B) in subsection (h)(2)—
(i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 109(8) of the Ethics in Government Act
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 109(8))’’ and inserting
‘‘section 109 of the Ethics in Government Act
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 109(10) of the Ethics in Government Act
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 109(10))’’ and inserting
‘‘section 109 of the Ethics in Government Act
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)’’.
(4) Section 499(j)(2) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290b(j)(2)) is amended
by striking ‘‘section 109(16) of the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978’’ and inserting ‘‘sec-
tion 109 of the Ethics in Government Act of
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)’’.
Subtitle F—Transition Team Ethics
SEC. 8051. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Transi-
tion Team Ethics Improvement Act’’.
SEC. 8052. PRESIDENTIAL TRANSITION ETHICS
PROGRAMS.
The Presidential Transition Act of 1963 (3
U.S.C. 102 note) is amended—
(1) in section 3(f), by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(3) Not later than 10 days after submit-
ting an application for a security clearance
for any individual, and not later than 10 days
after any such individual is granted a secu-
rity clearance (including an interim clear-
ance), each eligible candidate (as that term
is described in subsection (h)(4)(A)) or the
President-elect (as the case may be) shall
submit a report containing the name of such
individual to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.’’;
(2) in section 4—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (4) as para-
graph (5); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (3) the
following:
‘‘(4) the term ‘nonpublic information’—
‘‘(A) means information from the Federal
Government that a transition team member
obtains as part of the employment of such
member that the member knows or reason-
ably should know has not been made avail-
able to the general public; and
‘‘(B) includes information that has not
been released to the public that a transition
team member knows or reasonably should
know—
‘‘(i) is exempt from disclosure under sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code, or oth-
erwise protected from disclosure by law; and
‘‘(ii) is not authorized by the appropriate
agency or official to be released to the pub-
lic; and’’; and
(B) in subsection (g)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Novem-
ber’’ and inserting ‘‘October’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) ETHICS PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each memorandum of
understanding under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an agreement that the eligible can-
didate will implement and enforce an ethics
plan to guide the conduct of the transition
beginning on the date on which the eligible
candidate becomes the President-elect.
‘‘(B) CONTENTS.—The ethics plan shall in-
clude, at a minimum—
‘‘(i) a description of the ethics require-
ments that will apply to all transition team
members, including specific requirements for
transition team members who will have ac-
cess to nonpublic or classified information;
‘‘(ii) a description of how the transition
team will—
‘‘(I) address the role on the transition team
of—
‘‘(aa) registered lobbyists under the Lob-
bying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et
seq.) and individuals who were formerly reg-
istered lobbyists under that Act;
‘‘(bb) persons registered under the Foreign
Agents Registration Act, as amended (22
U.S.C. 611 et seq.), foreign nationals, and
other foreign agents; and
‘‘(cc) transition team members with
sources of income or clients that are not dis-
closed to the public;
‘‘(II) prohibit a transition team member
with personal financial conflicts of interest
as described in section 208 of title 18, United
States Code, from working on particular
matters involving specific parties that affect
the interests of such member; and
‘‘(III) address how the covered eligible can-
didate will address their own personal finan-
cial conflicts of interest during a Presi-
dential term if the covered eligible candidate
becomes the President-elect;
‘‘(iii) a Code of Ethical Conduct, to which
each transition team member will sign and
be subject to, that reflects the content of the
ethics plans under this paragraph and at a
minimum requires each transition team
member to—
‘‘(I) seek authorization from transition
team leaders or their designees before seek-
ing, on behalf of the transition, access to any
nonpublic information;
‘‘(II) keep confidential any nonpublic infor-
mation provided in the course of the duties
of the member with the transition and exclu-
sively use such information for the purposes
of the transition; and
‘‘(III) not use any nonpublic information
provided in the course of transition duties,
in any manner, for personal or private gain
for the member or any other party at any
time during or after the transition; and
‘‘(iv) a description of how the transition
team will enforce the Code of Ethical Con-
duct, including the names of the transition
team members responsible for enforcement,
oversight, and compliance.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2475
March 6, 2019
‘‘(C) PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.—The transition
team shall make the ethics plan described in
this paragraph publicly available on the
website of the General Services Administra-
tion the earlier of—
‘‘(i) the day on which the memorandum of
understanding is completed; or
‘‘(ii) October 1.’’; and
(3) in section 6(b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting a semicolon;
and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) a list of all positions each transition
team member has held outside the Federal
Government for the previous 12-month pe-
riod, including paid and unpaid positions;
‘‘(D) sources of compensation for each
transition team member exceeding $5,000 a
year for the previous 12-month period;
‘‘(E) a description of the role of each tran-
sition team member, including a list of any
policy issues that the member expects to
work on, and a list of agencies the member
expects to interact with, while serving on
the transition team;
‘‘(F) a list of any issues from which each
transition team member will be recused
while serving as a member of the transition
team pursuant to the transition team ethics
plan outlined in section 4(g)(3); and
‘‘(G) an affirmation that no transition
team member has a financial conflict of in-
terest that precludes the member from work-
ing on the matters described in subparagraph
(E).’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘not
later than 2 business days’’ after ‘‘public’’;
and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) The head of a Federal department or
agency, or their designee, shall not permit
access to the Federal department or agency,
or employees of such department or agency,
that would not be provided to a member of
the public for any transition team member
who does not make the disclosures listed
under paragraph (1).’’.
Subtitle G—Ethics Pledge For Senior
Executive Branch Employees
SEC. 8061. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Ethics
in Public Service Act’’.
SEC. 8062. ETHICS PLEDGE REQUIREMENT FOR
SENIOR EXECUTIVE BRANCH EM-
PLOYEES.
The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App. 101 et seq.) is amended by insert-
ing after title I the following new title:
‘‘TITLE II—ETHICS PLEDGE
‘‘SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘For the purposes of this title, the fol-
lowing definitions apply:
‘‘(1) The term ‘executive agency’ has the
meaning given that term in section 105 of
title 5, United States Code, and includes the
Executive Office of the President, the United
States Postal Service, and Postal Regulatory
Commission, but does not include the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office.
‘‘(2) The term ‘appointee’ means any non-
career Presidential or Vice-Presidential ap-
pointee, noncareer appointee in the Senior
Executive Service (or other SES-type sys-
tem), or appointee to a position that has
been excepted from the competitive service
by reason of being of a confidential or pol-
icymaking character (Schedule C and other
positions excepted under comparable cri-
teria) in an executive agency, but does not
include any individual appointed as a mem-
ber of the Senior Foreign Service or solely as
a uniformed service commissioned officer.
‘‘(3) The term ‘gift’—
‘‘(A) has the meaning given that term in
section 2635.203(b) of title 5, Code of Federal
Regulations (or any successor regulation);
and
‘‘(B) does not include those items excluded
by sections 2635.204(b), (c), (e)(1), (e)(3), (j),
(k), and (l) of such title 5.
‘‘(4) The term ‘covered executive branch of-
ficial’ and ‘lobbyist’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 3 of the Lob-
bying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602).
‘‘(5) The term ‘registered lobbyist or lob-
bying organization’ means a lobbyist or an
organization filing a registration pursuant
to section 4(a) of the Lobbying Disclosure
Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1603(a)), and in the case
of an organization filing such a registration,
‘registered lobbyist’ includes each of the lob-
byists identified therein.
‘‘(6) The term ‘lobby’ and ‘lobbied’ mean to
act or have acted as a registered lobbyist.
‘‘(7) The term ‘former employer’—
‘‘(A) means a person or entity for whom an
appointee served as an employee, officer, di-
rector, trustee, partner, agent, attorney,
consultant, or contractor during the 2-year
period ending on the date before the date on
which the covered employee begins service in
the Federal Government; and
‘‘(B) does not include—
‘‘(i) an agency or instrumentality of the
Federal Government;
‘‘(ii) a State or local government;
‘‘(iii) the District of Columbia;
‘‘(iv) an Indian tribe, as defined in section
4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304); or
‘‘(v) the government of a territory or pos-
session of the United States.
‘‘(8) The term ‘former client’ means a per-
son or entity for whom an appointee served
personally as agent, attorney, or consultant
during the 2-year period ending on the date
before the date on which the covered em-
ployee begins service in the Federal Govern-
ment, but does not include an agency or in-
strumentality of the Federal Government;
‘‘(9) The term ‘directly and substantially
related to my former employer or former cli-
ents’ means matters in which the appointee’s
former employer or a former client is a party
or represents a party.
‘‘(10) The term ‘participate’ means to par-
ticipate personally and substantially.
‘‘(11) The term ‘post-employment restric-
tions’ includes the provisions and exceptions
in section 207(c) of title 18, United States
Code, and the implementing regulations.
‘‘(12) The term ‘Government official’
means any employee of the executive
branch.
‘‘(13) The term ‘Administration’ means all
terms of office of the incumbent President
serving at the time of the appointment of an
appointee covered by this title.
‘‘(14) The term ‘pledge’ means the ethics
pledge set forth in section 202 of this title.
‘‘(15) All references to provisions of law
and regulations shall refer to such provisions
as in effect on the date of enactment of this
title.
‘‘SEC. 202. ETHICS PLEDGE.
‘‘Each appointee in every executive agency
appointed on or after the date of enactment
of this section shall be required to sign an
ethics pledge upon appointment. The pledge
shall be signed and dated within 30 days of
taking office and shall include, at a min-
imum, the following elements:
‘‘ ‘As a condition, and in consideration, of
my employment in the United States Gov-
ernment in a position invested with the pub-
lic trust, I commit myself to the following
obligations, which I understand are binding
on me and are enforceable under law:
‘‘ ‘(1) Lobbyist Gift Ban.—I will not accept
gifts from registered lobbyists or lobbying
organizations for the duration of my service
as an appointee.
‘‘ ‘(2) Revolving Door Ban; Entering Gov-
ernment.—
‘‘ ‘(A) All Appointees Entering Govern-
ment.—I will not, for a period of 2 years from
the date of my appointment, participate in
any particular matter involving specific
party or parties that is directly and substan-
tially related to my former employer or
former clients, including regulations and
contracts.
‘‘ ‘(B) Lobbyists Entering Government.—If
I was a registered lobbyist within the 2 years
before the date of my appointment, in addi-
tion to abiding by the limitations of sub-
paragraph (A), I will not for a period of 2
years after the date of my appointment:
‘‘ ‘(i) participate in any particular matter
on which I lobbied within the 2 years before
the date of my appointment;
‘‘ ‘(ii) participate in the specific issue area
in which that particular matter falls; or
‘‘ ‘(iii) seek or accept employment with any
executive agency that I lobbied within the 2
years before the date of my appointment.
‘‘ ‘(3) Revolving Door Ban; Appointees
Leaving Government.—
‘‘ ‘(A) All Appointees Leaving Govern-
ment.—If, upon my departure from the Gov-
ernment, I am covered by the post-employ-
ment restrictions on communicating with
employees of my former executive agency
set forth in section 207(c) of title 18, United
States Code, I agree that I will abide by
those restrictions for a period of 2 years fol-
lowing the end of my appointment.
‘‘ ‘(B) Appointees Leaving Government to
Lobby.—In addition to abiding by the limita-
tions of subparagraph (A), I also agree, upon
leaving Government service, not to lobby
any covered executive branch official or non-
career Senior Executive Service appointee
for the remainder of the Administration.
‘‘ ‘(4) Employment Qualification Commit-
ment.—I agree that any hiring or other em-
ployment decisions I make will be based on
the candidate’s qualifications, competence,
and experience.
‘‘ ‘(5) Assent to Enforcement.—I acknowl-
edge that title II of the Ethics in Govern-
ment Act of 1978, which I have read before
signing this document, defines certain of the
terms applicable to the foregoing obligations
and sets forth the methods for enforcing
them. I expressly accept the provisions of
that title as a part of this agreement and as
binding on me. I understand that the terms
of this pledge are in addition to any statu-
tory or other legal restrictions applicable to
me by virtue of Federal Government serv-
ice.’ ’’.
‘‘SEC. 203. WAIVER.
‘‘(a) The President or the President’s des-
ignee may grant to any current or former ap-
pointee a written waiver of any restrictions
contained in the pledge signed by such ap-
pointee if, and to the extent that, the Presi-
dent or the President’s designee certifies (in
writing) that, in light of all the relevant cir-
cumstances, the interest of the Federal Gov-
ernment in the employee’s participation out-
weighs the concern that a reasonable person
may question the integrity of the agency’s
programs or operations.
‘‘(b) Any waiver under this section shall
take effect when the certification is signed
by the President or the President’s designee.
‘‘(c) For purposes of subsection (a)(2), the
public interest shall include exigent cir-
cumstances relating to national security or
to the economy. De minimis contact with an
executive agency shall be cause for a waiver
of the restrictions contained in paragraph
(2)(B) of the pledge.
‘‘(d) For any waiver granted under this sec-
tion, the individual who granted the waiver
shall—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2476 March 6, 2019
‘‘(1) provide a copy of the waiver to the Di-
rector not less than 48 hours after the waiver
is granted; and
‘‘(2) publish the waiver on the website of
the applicable agency within 30 calendar
days after granting such waiver.
‘‘(e) Upon receiving a written waiver under
subsection (d), the Director shall—
‘‘(1) review the waiver to determine wheth-
er the Director has any objection to the
issuance of the waiver; and
‘‘(2) if the Director so objects—
‘‘(A) provide reasons for the objection in
writing to the head of the agency who grant-
ed the waiver not less than 15 calendar days
after the waiver was granted; and
‘‘(B) publish the written objection on the
website of the Office of Government Ethics
not less than 30 calendar days after the waiv-
er was granted.
‘‘SEC. 204. ADMINISTRATION.
‘‘(a) The head of each executive agency
shall, in consultation with the Director of
the Office of Government Ethics, establish
such rules or procedures (conforming as
nearly as practicable to the agency’s general
ethics rules and procedures, including those
relating to designated agency ethics officers)
as are necessary or appropriate to ensure—
‘‘(1) that every appointee in the agency
signs the pledge upon assuming the ap-
pointed office or otherwise becoming an ap-
pointee;
‘‘(2) that compliance with paragraph (2)(B)
of the pledge is addressed in a written ethics
agreement with each appointee to whom it
applies;
‘‘(3) that spousal employment issues and
other conflicts not expressly addressed by
the pledge are addressed in ethics agree-
ments with appointees or, where no such
agreements are required, through ethics
counseling; and
‘‘(4) compliance with this title within the
agency.
‘‘(b) With respect to the Executive Office of
the President, the duties set forth in sub-
section (a) shall be the responsibility of the
Counsel to the President.
‘‘(c) The Director of the Office of Govern-
ment Ethics shall—
‘‘(1) ensure that the pledge and a copy of
this title are made available for use by agen-
cies in fulfilling their duties under sub-
section (a);
‘‘(2) in consultation with the Attorney
General or the Counsel to the President,
when appropriate, assist designated agency
ethics officers in providing advice to current
or former appointees regarding the applica-
tion of the pledge;
‘‘(3) adopt such rules or procedures as are
necessary or appropriate—
‘‘(A) to carry out the responsibilities as-
signed by this subsection;
‘‘(B) to apply the lobbyist gift ban set forth
in paragraph 1 of the pledge to all executive
branch employees;
‘‘(C) to authorize limited exceptions to the
lobbyist gift ban for circumstances that do
not implicate the purposes of the ban;
‘‘(D) to make clear that no person shall
have violated the lobbyist gift ban if the per-
son properly disposes of a gift;
‘‘(E) to ensure that existing rules and pro-
cedures for Government employees engaged
in negotiations for future employment with
private businesses that are affected by their
official actions do not affect the integrity of
the Government’s programs and operations;
and
‘‘(F) to ensure, in consultation with the Di-
rector of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, that the requirement set forth in para-
graph (4) of the pledge is honored by every
employee of the executive branch;
‘‘(4) in consultation with the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, report
to the President, the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform of the House of Represent-
atives, and the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs of the Sen-
ate on whether full compliance is being
achieved with existing laws and regulations
governing executive branch procurement
lobbying disclosure and on steps the execu-
tive branch can take to expand to the fullest
extent practicable disclosure of such execu-
tive branch procurement lobbying and of lob-
bying for presidential pardons, and to in-
clude in the report both immediate action
the executive branch can take and, if nec-
essary, recommendations for legislation; and
‘‘(5) provide an annual public report on the
administration of the pledge and this title.
‘‘(d) All pledges signed by appointees, and
all waiver certifications with respect there-
to, shall be filed with the head of the ap-
pointee’s agency for permanent retention in
the appointee’s official personnel folder or
equivalent folder.’’.
Subtitle H—Severability
SEC. 8071. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title or any amend-
ment made by this title, or any application
of such provision or amendment to any per-
son or circumstance, is held to be unconsti-
tutional, the remainder of the provisions of
this title and the amendments made by this
title, and the application of the provision or
amendment to any other person or cir-
cumstance, shall not be affected.
TITLE IX—CONGRESSIONAL ETHICS
REFORM
Subtitle A—Requiring Members of Congress
to Reimburse Treasury for Amounts Paid
as Settlements and Awards Under Congres-
sional Accountability Act of 1995
Sec. 9001. Requiring Members of Congress to
reimburse Treasury for
amounts paid as settlements
and awards under Congressional
Accountability Act of 1995 in
all cases of employment dis-
crimination acts by Members.
Subtitle B—Conflicts of Interests
Sec. 9101. Prohibiting Members of House of
Representatives from serving
on boards of for-profit entities.
Sec. 9102. Conflict of interest rules for Mem-
bers of Congress and congres-
sional staff.
Sec. 9103. Exercise of rulemaking powers.
Subtitle C—Campaign Finance and Lobbying
Disclosure
Sec. 9201. Short title.
Sec. 9202. Requiring disclosure in certain re-
ports filed with Federal Elec-
tion Commission of persons
who are registered lobbyists.
Sec. 9203. Effective date.
Subtitle D—Access to Congressionally
Mandated Reports
Sec. 9301. Short title.
Sec. 9302. Definitions.
Sec. 9303. Establishment of online portal for
congressionally mandated re-
ports.
Sec. 9304. Federal agency responsibilities.
Sec. 9305. Removing and altering reports.
Sec. 9306. Relationship to the Freedom of In-
formation Act.
Sec. 9307. Implementation.
Subtitle E—Severability
Sec. 9401. Severability.
Subtitle A—Requiring Members of Congress
to Reimburse Treasury for Amounts Paid
as Settlements and Awards Under Congres-
sional Accountability Act of 1995
SEC. 9001. REQUIRING MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
TO REIMBURSE TREASURY FOR
AMOUNTS PAID AS SETTLEMENTS
AND AWARDS UNDER CONGRES-
SIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF
1995 IN ALL CASES OF EMPLOYMENT
DISCRIMINATION ACTS BY MEM-
BERS.
(a) REQUIRING REIMBURSEMENT.—Clause (i)
of section 415(d)(1)(C) of the Congressional
Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C.
1415(d)(1)(C)), as amended by section 111(a) of
the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995
Reform Act, is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(i) a violation of section 201(a) or section
206(a); or’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO
NOTIFICATION OF POSSIBILITY OF REIMBURSE-
MENT.—Clause (i) of section 402(b)(2)(B) of the
Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2
U.S.C. 1402(b)(2)(B)), as amended by section
102(a) of the Congressional Accountability
Act of 1995 Reform Act, is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(i) a violation of section 201(a) or section
206(a); or’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect as if
included in the enactment of the Congres-
sional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform
Act.
Subtitle B—Conflicts of Interests
SEC. 9101. PROHIBITING MEMBERS OF HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES FROM SERVING
ON BOARDS OF FOR-PROFIT ENTI-
TIES.
Rule XXIII of the Rules of the House of
Representatives is amended—
(1) by redesignating clause 19 as clause 20;
and
(2) by inserting after clause 18 the fol-
lowing new clause:
‘‘9. A Member, Delegate, or Resident Com-
missioner may not serve on the board of di-
rectors of any for-profit entity.’’.
SEC. 9102. CONFLICT OF INTEREST RULES FOR
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND CON-
GRESSIONAL STAFF.
No Member, officer, or employee of a com-
mittee or Member of either House of Con-
gress may knowingly use his or her official
position to introduce or aid the progress or
passage of legislation, a principal purpose of
which is to further only his or her pecuniary
interest, only the pecuniary interest of his
or her immediate family, or only the pecu-
niary interest of a limited class of persons or
enterprises, when he or she, or his or her im-
mediate family, or enterprises controlled by
them, are members of the affected class.
SEC. 9103. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS.
The provisions of this subtitle are enacted
by the Congress—
(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate, respectively, and as such they shall be
considered as part of the rules of each House,
respectively, or of that House to which they
specifically apply, and such rules shall su-
persede other rules only to the extent that
they are inconsistent therewith; and
(2) with full recognition of the constitu-
tional right of either House to change such
rules (so far as relating to such House) at
any time, in the same manner, and to the
same extent as in the case of any other rule
of such House.
Subtitle C—Campaign Finance and Lobbying
Disclosure
SEC. 9201. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Con-
necting Lobbyists and Electeds for Account-
ability and Reform Act’’ or the ‘‘CLEAR
Act’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2477
March 6, 2019
SEC. 9202. REQUIRING DISCLOSURE IN CERTAIN
REPORTS FILED WITH FEDERAL
ELECTION COMMISSION OF PER-
SONS WHO ARE REGISTERED LOBBY-
ISTS.
(a) REPORTS FILED BY POLITICAL COMMIT-
TEES.—Section 304(b) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30104(b)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (7);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (8) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(9) if any person identified in subpara-
graph (A), (E), (F), or (G) of paragraph (3) is
a registered lobbyist under the Lobbying
Disclosure Act of 1995, a separate statement
that such person is a registered lobbyist
under such Act.’’.
(b) REPORTS FILED BY PERSONS MAKING
INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES.—Section
304(c)(2) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30104(c)(2)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subpara-
graph (B);
(2) by striking the period at the end of sub-
paragraph (C) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(D) if the person filing the statement, or
a person whose identification is required to
be disclosed under subparagraph (C), is a reg-
istered lobbyist under the Lobbying Disclo-
sure Act of 1995, a separate statement that
such person is a registered lobbyist under
such Act.’’.
(c) REPORTS FILED BY PERSONS MAKING DIS-
BURSEMENTS FOR ELECTIONEERING COMMU-
NICATIONS.—Section 304(f)(2) of such Act (52
U.S.C. 30104(f)(2)) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(G) If the person making the disburse-
ment, or a contributor described in subpara-
graph (E) or (F), is a registered lobbyist
under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995, a
separate statement that such person or con-
tributor is a registered lobbyist under such
Act.’’.
(d) REQUIRING COMMISSION TO ESTABLISH
LINK TO WEBSITES OF CLERK OF HOUSE AND
SECRETARY OF SENATE.—Section 304 of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 30104), as amended by section
4308(a), is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(k) REQUIRING INFORMATION ON REG-
ISTERED LOBBYISTS TO BE LINKED TO
WEBSITES OF CLERK OF HOUSE AND SECRETARY
OF SENATE.—
‘‘(1) LINKS TO WEBSITES.—The Commission
shall ensure that the Commission’s public
database containing information described
in paragraph (2) is linked electronically to
the websites maintained by the Secretary of
the Senate and the Clerk of the House of
Representatives containing information filed
pursuant to the Lobbying Disclosure Act of
1995.
‘‘(2) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—The infor-
mation described in this paragraph is each of
the following:
‘‘(A) Information disclosed under para-
graph (9) of subsection (b).
‘‘(B) Information disclosed under subpara-
graph (D) of subsection (c)(2).
‘‘(C) Information disclosed under subpara-
graph (G) of subsection (f)(2).’’.
SEC. 9203. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The amendments made by this subtitle
shall apply with respect to reports required
to be filed under the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 on or after the expiration of
the 90-day period which begins on the date of
the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle D—Access to Congressionally
Mandated Reports
SEC. 9301. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Access
to Congressionally Mandated Reports Act’’.
SEC. 9302. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONGRESSIONALLY MANDATED REPORT.—
The term ‘‘congressionally mandated re-
port’’—
(A) means a report that is required to be
submitted to either House of Congress or any
committee of Congress, or subcommittee
thereof, by a statute, resolution, or con-
ference report that accompanies legislation
enacted into law; and
(B) does not include a report required
under part B of subtitle II of title 36, United
States Code.
(2) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the Government Publishing
Office.
(3) FEDERAL AGENCY.—The term ‘‘Federal
agency’’ has the meaning given that term
under section 102 of title 40, United States
Code, but does not include the Government
Accountability Office.
(4) OPEN FORMAT.—The term ‘‘open format’’
means a file format for storing digital data
based on an underlying open standard that—
(A) is not encumbered by any restrictions
that would impede reuse; and
(B) is based on an underlying open data
standard that is maintained by a standards
organization.
(5) REPORTS ONLINE PORTAL.—The term ‘‘re-
ports online portal’’ means the online portal
established under section (3)(a).
SEC. 9303. ESTABLISHMENT OF ONLINE PORTAL
FOR CONGRESSIONALLY MANDATED
REPORTS.
(a) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH ONLINE
PORTAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Direc-
tor shall establish and maintain an online
portal accessible by the public that allows
the public to obtain electronic copies of all
congressionally mandated reports in one
place. The Director may publish other re-
ports on the online portal.
(2) EXISTING FUNCTIONALITY.—To the extent
possible, the Director shall meet the require-
ments under paragraph (1) by using existing
online portals and functionality under the
authority of the Director.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out this
subtitle, the Director shall consult with the
Clerk of the House of Representatives, the
Secretary of the Senate, and the Librarian of
Congress regarding the requirements for and
maintenance of congressionally mandated
reports on the reports online portal.
(b) CONTENT AND FUNCTION.—The Director
shall ensure that the reports online portal
includes the following:
(1) Subject to subsection (c), with respect
to each congressionally mandated report,
each of the following:
(A) A citation to the statute, conference
report, or resolution requiring the report.
(B) An electronic copy of the report, in-
cluding any transmittal letter associated
with the report, in an open format that is
platform independent and that is available
to the public without restrictions, including
restrictions that would impede the re-use of
the information in the report.
(C) The ability to retrieve a report, to the
extent practicable, through searches based
on each, and any combination, of the fol-
lowing:
(i) The title of the report.
(ii) The reporting Federal agency.
(iii) The date of publication.
(iv) Each congressional committee receiv-
ing the report, if applicable.
(v) The statute, resolution, or conference
report requiring the report.
(vi) Subject tags.
(vii) A unique alphanumeric identifier for
the report that is consistent across report
editions.
(viii) The serial number, Superintendent of
Documents number, or other identification
number for the report, if applicable.
(ix) Key words.
(x) Full text search.
(xi) Any other relevant information speci-
fied by the Director.
(D) The date on which the report was re-
quired to be submitted, and on which the re-
port was submitted, to the reports online
portal.
(E) Access to the report not later than 30
calendar days after its submission to Con-
gress.
(F) To the extent practicable, a permanent
means of accessing the report electronically.
(2) A means for bulk download of all con-
gressionally mandated reports.
(3) A means for downloading individual re-
ports as the result of a search.
(4) An electronic means for the head of
each Federal agency to submit to the reports
online portal each congressionally mandated
report of the agency, as required by section
4.
(5) In tabular form, a list of all congres-
sionally mandated reports that can be
searched, sorted, and downloaded by—
(A) reports submitted within the required
time;
(B) reports submitted after the date on
which such reports were required to be sub-
mitted; and
(C) reports not submitted.
(c) NONCOMPLIANCE BY FEDERAL AGEN-
CIES.—
(1) REPORTS NOT SUBMITTED.—If a Federal
agency does not submit a congressionally
mandated report to the Director, the Direc-
tor shall to the extent practicable—
(A) include on the reports online portal—
(i) the information required under clauses
(i), (ii), (iv), and (v) of subsection (b)(1)(C);
and
(ii) the date on which the report was re-
quired to be submitted; and
(B) include the congressionally mandated
report on the list described in subsection
(b)(5)(C).
(2) REPORTS NOT IN OPEN FORMAT.—If a Fed-
eral agency submits a congressionally man-
dated report that is not in an open format,
the Director shall include the congression-
ally mandated report in another format on
the reports online portal.
(d) FREE ACCESS.—The Director may not
charge a fee, require registration, or impose
any other limitation in exchange for access
to the reports online portal.
(e) UPGRADE CAPABILITY.—The reports on-
line portal shall be enhanced and updated as
necessary to carry out the purposes of this
subtitle.
SEC. 9304. FEDERAL AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES.
(a) SUBMISSION OF ELECTRONIC COPIES OF
REPORTS.—Concurrently with the submission
to Congress of each congressionally man-
dated report, the head of the Federal agency
submitting the congressionally mandated re-
port shall submit to the Director the infor-
mation required under subparagraphs (A)
through (D) of section 3(b)(1) with respect to
the congressionally mandated report. Noth-
ing in this subtitle shall relieve a Federal
agency of any other requirement to publish
the congressionally mandated report on the
online portal of the Federal agency or other-
wise submit the congressionally mandated
report to Congress or specific committees of
Congress, or subcommittees thereof.
(b) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 240 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2478 March 6, 2019
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget, in consultation with the Director,
shall issue guidance to agencies on the im-
plementation of this Act.
(c) STRUCTURE OF SUBMITTED REPORT
DATA.—The head of each Federal agency
shall ensure that each congressionally man-
dated report submitted to the Director com-
plies with the open format criteria estab-
lished by the Director in the guidance issued
under subsection (b).
(d) POINT OF CONTACT.—The head of each
Federal agency shall designate a point of
contact for congressionally mandated report.
(e) LIST OF REPORTS.—As soon as prac-
ticable each calendar year (but not later
than April 1), and on a rolling basis during
the year if feasible, the Librarian of Con-
gress shall submit to the Director a list of
congressionally mandated reports from the
previous calendar year, in consultation with
the Clerk of the House of Representatives,
which shall—
(1) be provided in an open format;
(2) include the information required under
clauses (i), (ii), (iv), (v) of section 3(b)(1)(C)
for each report;
(3) include the frequency of the report;
(4) include a unique alphanumeric identi-
fier for the report that is consistent across
report editions;
(5) include the date on which each report is
required to be submitted; and
(6) be updated and provided to the Direc-
tor, as necessary.
SEC. 9305. REMOVING AND ALTERING REPORTS.
A report submitted to be published to the
reports online portal may only be changed or
removed, with the exception of technical
changes, by the head of the Federal agency
concerned if—
(1) the head of the Federal agency consults
with each congressional committee to which
the report is submitted; and
(2) Congress enacts a joint resolution au-
thorizing the changing or removal of the re-
port.
SEC. 9306. RELATIONSHIP TO THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this subtitle
shall be construed to—
(1) require the disclosure of information or
records that are exempt from public disclo-
sure under section 552 of title 5, United
States Code; or
(2) to impose any affirmative duty on the
Director to review congressionally mandated
reports submitted for publication to the re-
ports online portal for the purpose of identi-
fying and redacting such information or
records.
(b) REDACTION OF INFORMATION.—The head
of a Federal agency may redact information
required to be disclosed under this Act if the
information would be properly withheld from
disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United
States Code, and shall—
(1) redact information required to be dis-
closed under this subtitle if disclosure of
such information is prohibited by law;
(2) redact information being withheld
under this subsection prior to submitting the
information to the Director;
(3) redact only such information properly
withheld under this subsection from the sub-
mission of information or from any congres-
sionally mandated report submitted under
this subtitle;
(4) identify where any such redaction is
made in the submission or report; and
(5) identify the exemption under which
each such redaction is made.
SEC. 9307. IMPLEMENTATION.
Except as provided in section 9304(b), this
subtitle shall be implemented not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of this
Act and shall apply with respect to congres-
sionally mandated reports submitted to Con-
gress on or after the date that is 1 year after
such date of enactment.
Subtitle E—Severability
SEC. 9401. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title or amendment
made by this title, or the application of a
provision or amendment to any person or
circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this title and amendments
made by this title, and the application of the
provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
TITLE X—PRESIDENTIAL AND VICE
PRESIDENTIAL TAX TRANSPARENCY
Sec. 10001. Presidential and Vice Presi-
dential tax transparency.
SEC. 10001. PRESIDENTIAL AND VICE PRESI-
DENTIAL TAX TRANSPARENCY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) The term ‘‘covered candidate’’ means a
candidate of a major party in a general elec-
tion for the office of President or Vice Presi-
dent.
(2) The term ‘‘major party’’ has the mean-
ing given the term in section 9002 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986.
(3) The term ‘‘income tax return’’ means,
with respect to an individual, any return (as
such term is defined in section 6103(b)(1) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, except
that such term shall not include declarations
of estimated tax) of—
(A) such individual, other than informa-
tion returns issued to persons other than
such individual, or
(B) of any corporation, partnership, or
trust in which such individual holds, directly
or indirectly, a significant interest as the
sole or principal owner or the sole or prin-
cipal beneficial owner (as such terms are de-
fined in regulations prescribed by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury or his delegate).
(4) The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of the Treasury or the delegate of the
Secretary.
(b) DISCLOSURE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT AND VICE
PRESIDENT.—Not later than the date that is
15 days after the date on which an individual
becomes a covered candidate, the individual
shall submit to the Federal Election Com-
mission a copy of the individual’s income tax
returns for the 10 most recent taxable years
for which a return has been filed with the In-
ternal Revenue Service.
(B) PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT.—With
respect to an individual who is the President
or Vice President, not later than the due
date for the return of tax for each taxable
year, such individual shall submit to the
Federal Election Commission a copy of the
individual’s income tax returns for the tax-
able year and for the 9 preceding taxable
years.
(C) TRANSITION RULE FOR SITTING PRESI-
DENTS AND VICE PRESIDENTS.—Not later than
the date that is 30 days after the date of en-
actment of this section, an individual who is
the President or Vice President on such date
of enactment shall submit to the Federal
Election Commission a copy of the income
tax returns for the 10 most recent taxable
years for which a return has been filed with
the Internal Revenue Service.
(2) FAILURE TO DISCLOSE.—If any require-
ment under paragraph (1) to submit an in-
come tax return is not met, the chairman of
the Federal Election Commission shall sub-
mit to the Secretary a written request that
the Secretary provide the Federal Election
Commission with the income tax return.
(3) PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.—The chairman of
the Federal Election Commission shall make
publicly available each income tax return
submitted under paragraph (1) in the same
manner as a return provided under section
6103(l)(23) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (as added by this section).
(4) TREATMENT AS A REPORT UNDER THE FED-
ERAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN ACT OF 1971.—For
purposes of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971, any income tax return submitted
under paragraph (1) or provided under sec-
tion 6103(l)(23) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (as added by this section) shall, after
redaction under paragraph (3) or subpara-
graph (B)(ii) of such section, be treated as a
report filed under the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971.
(c) DISCLOSURE OF RETURNS OF PRESIDENTS
AND VICE PRESIDENTS AND CERTAIN CAN-
DIDATES FOR PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESI-
DENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 6103(l) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(23) DISCLOSURE OF RETURN INFORMATION
OF PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENTS AND CER-
TAIN CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT AND VICE
PRESIDENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Upon written request by
the chairman of the Federal Election Com-
mission under section 10001(b)(2) of the For
the People Act of 2019, not later than the
date that is 15 days after the date of such re-
quest, the Secretary shall provide copies of
any return which is so requested to officers
and employees of the Federal Election Com-
mission whose official duties include disclo-
sure or redaction of such return under this
paragraph.
‘‘(B) DISCLOSURE TO THE PUBLIC.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The chairman of the Fed-
eral Election Commission shall make pub-
licly available any return which is provided
under subparagraph (A).
‘‘(ii) REDACTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.—
Before making publicly available under
clause (i) any return, the chairman of the
Federal Election Commission shall redact
such information as the Federal Election
Commission and the Secretary jointly deter-
mine is necessary for protecting against
identity theft, such as social security num-
bers.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
6103(p)(4) of such Code is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A) by striking ‘‘or (22)’’ and inserting ‘‘(22),
or (23)’’, and
(B) in subparagraph (F)(ii) by striking ‘‘or
(22)’’ and inserting ‘‘(22), or (23)’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection shall apply to dis-
closures made on or after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
The Acting CHAIR. No further
amendment to the bill, as amended,
shall be in order except those printed
in part B of House Report 116–16 and
amendments en bloc described in sec-
tion 3 of House Resolution 172.
Each further amendment printed in
part B of the report may be offered
only in the order printed in the report,
by a Member designated in the report,
shall be considered as read, shall be de-
batable for the time specified in the re-
port equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, shall
not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division
of the question.
It shall be in order at any time for
the chair of the Committee on House
Administration or her designee to offer
amendments en bloc consisting of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.013 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2479
March 6, 2019
amendments printed in part B of the
report not earlier disposed of. Amend-
ments en bloc shall be considered as
read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on House Administra-
tion or their designees, shall not be
subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the
question.
b 1700
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. SUOZZI
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 1 printed in
part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 323, after line 6, insert the following:
SEC. 4103. AUDIT AND REPORT ON ILLICIT FOR-
EIGN MONEY IN FEDERAL ELEC-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101 et seq.), as amended by section 1821, is
further amended by inserting after section
319A the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 319B. AUDIT AND REPORT ON DISBURSE-
MENTS BY FOREIGN NATIONALS.
‘‘(a) AUDIT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
conduct an audit after each Federal election
cycle to determine the incidence of illicit
foreign money in such Federal election
cycle.
‘‘(2) PROCEDURES.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Commission shall conduct ran-
dom audits of any disbursements required to
be reported under this Act, in accordance
with procedures established by the Commis-
sion.
‘‘(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the end of each Federal election cycle, the
Commission shall submit to Congress a re-
port containing—
‘‘(1) results of the audit required by sub-
section (a)(1); and
‘‘(2) recommendations to address the pres-
ence of illicit foreign money in elections, as
appropriate.
‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘Federal election cycle’
means the period which begins on the day
after the date of a regularly scheduled gen-
eral election for Federal office and which
ends on the date of the first regularly sched-
uled general election for Federal office held
after such date.
‘‘(2) The term ‘illicit foreign money’ means
any disbursement by a foreign national (as
defined in section 319(b)) prohibited under
such section.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to the Federal election cycle that
began during November 2018, and each suc-
ceeding Federal election cycle.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. SUOZZI) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Chairman, before I
speak about our bipartisan amend-
ment, I would like to thank Represent-
atives SARBANES and LOFGREN for their
hard work on H.R. 1.
I would also like to commend Chair-
man MCGOVERN and his staff on the
Rules Committee—and the entire Rules
Committee—for making our amend-
ment in order and for working with the
Problem Solvers Caucus and other
pragmatic Members to foster an inclu-
sive process.
Our bipartisan amendment No. 1 to
H.R. 1, with 24 Democrats and 20 Re-
publican cosponsors, would require the
Federal Election Commission to con-
duct an audit after each Federal elec-
tion cycle to determine any incidence
of illicit foreign money in the election.
The reason we have such a bipar-
tisan-supported amendment is because
of the hard work of the Problem Solv-
ers Caucus, chaired by my friends
Chairman REED for the Republicans
and Chairman GOTTHEIMER for the
Democrats.
In January, our colleagues on the
Problem Solvers Caucus worked with
the leadership to negotiate the 20–20
rule as part of our Break the Gridlock
proposal.
This amendment is the first amend-
ment to receive preferential treatment
under the 20–20 rule by the Rules Com-
mittee, and we are happy to see our ad-
dition to the rules package has worked
its way to encourage transparency and
bipartisanship in the 116th Congress.
Mr. Chairman, campaign finance law
has loopholes, leaving the American
electoral process susceptible to illicit
funding from foreign nationals, cor-
porations, and governments.
Foreign money easily influences our
elections by passing funds through
shell corporations, U.S. subsidiaries,
investments, trade associations, and
shell companies. Under our proposed
amendment, within 180 days of an elec-
tion, the FEC will submit to Congress
a report containing audit results and
recommendations to address the pres-
ence of illicit foreign money.
I urge the Members of this Congress
to continue to utilize the 20–20 rule and
gain some muscle memory of working
in a bipartisan way to work for the
American people.
Confidence in our electoral process is
essential to faith in our government in-
stitutions, and I urge the passage of
this bipartisan amendment to H.R. 1.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. REED. Mr. Chair, I seek the Re-
publican response time.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from New York is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. REED. Mr. Chairman, I would
like to start by thanking my colleague,
Mr. SUOZZI from New York, as well as
our Republican colleague, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, who led the charge on
this amendment process in this amend-
ment before you.
I would also take a moment to thank
my co-chair on the Problem Solvers
Caucus, Mr. GOTTHEIMER from New Jer-
sey.
Though we may disagree on the fun-
damental bill before us, Mr. Chairman,
I am pleased to be able to report to the
American people today that there are
still Members here that are looking to
find common ground.
In the amendment before you that
has been put forward in this new mech-
anism in the Rules Committee to en-
courage bipartisan debate, we have
found that common ground in regards
to the transparency and the require-
ments that this amendment calls for in
regards to making sure that, if foreign
money is in our election process, we do
what we can in order to root that out
and bring sunshine to that issue for all
Americans to see.
I encourage my colleagues on our
side of the aisle to support this amend-
ment because this is that common
ground that, even though we may fun-
damentally disagree on some of the
final conclusions of H.R. 1 and the
issue and the debate that we have al-
ready seen on display here today, this
is something that common sense dic-
tates that we come together for as
Democrats and Republicans, working
together to find that common ground
to advance the American cause.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Chairman, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Virginia (Ms. SPANBERGER).
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Chair, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, and
I rise in support of this amendment to
H.R. 1.
I speak today as someone who has
spent my career in public service iden-
tifying foreign threats to the safety
and security of the American people.
As a former CIA officer, I worked to
identify threats to our country, our fel-
low Americans, and threats that would
leave our Nation vulnerable to attack,
espionage, or foreign influence.
As Congress acts this week to restore
transparency to our government and
regain trust from the people we serve,
we must take steps to prevent foreign
influence in our democratic process. I
support efforts to push back against
the very real threat of foreign financial
influence. I know nefarious actors are
out there. I know they are tireless in
their commitment to target our
foundational institutions, including
our voting process.
The American people shouldn’t have
to worry about the ability of foreign
governments or entities to influence
our elections and our citizens, but
senseless loopholes in our campaign fi-
nance system have left our electoral
process vulnerable to spending by for-
eign governments, corporations, and
foreign nationals. These foreign enti-
ties should not have the ability to
exert influence over the issues that im-
pact Americans most, including the na-
tional defense, healthcare, and our fi-
nancial services sector. That is why I
am proud to cosponsor this much-need-
ed, bipartisan amendment.
This amendment would strengthen
the integrity of our elections by en-
couraging our government to ensure
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.067 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2480 March 6, 2019
that our campaign finance system is
not falling prey to signs of foreign
money in our politics. It would require
the FEC to conduct an audit to look
for foreign money in our elections and
then require the FEC to report its find-
ings.
Mr. REED. Mr. Chairman, I yield 11⁄2
minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. GOTTHEIMER), Democratic
co-chair of the Problem Solvers Cau-
cus, in the spirit of bipartisanship and
in the effort to find common ground.
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Chairman, I
thank my co-chair of the Problem
Solvers Caucus, TOM REED, for his lead-
ership.
Mr. Chair, thank you for allowing me
to speak on behalf of this important bi-
partisan amendment to H.R. 1. I also
want to thank Congresswoman LOF-
GREN and Congressman SARBANES for
their leadership on this legislation.
And my colleagues who offered this
amendment, my very good friend Con-
gressman SUOZZI and Congressman
FITZPATRICK, I thank them for their
work on this bipartisan Problem Solv-
ers Caucus initiative, which I know
will further help improve H.R. 1 by
stopping the flow of foreign money into
our elections.
This amendment was developed with
strong support from the bipartisan
Problem Solvers Caucus, utilizing the
new Break the Gridlock rules reforms
that the caucus helped put in place in
the new Congress.
This is the first time the 20–20 rule is
being utilized for broad, bipartisan sup-
port legislation, and an amendment
like this sends exactly the right signal
to the American people that we can
work together to move legislation.
I am proud to be a cosponsor of H.R.
1, the For the People Act, which will
help strengthen voting rights in our
country, help clean corruption out of
our politics, and protect free and fair
elections, which is the bedrock of our
democracy.
Civil rights means everyone in our
great Nation has equal rights and,
therefore, equal speech. Dark money in
our politics flies in the face of that
American ideal, from wherever it
comes. Even worse is dark foreign
money.
Loopholes in our campaign finance
system have left our electoral process
vulnerable to unlimited spending by
foreign governments, corporations, and
foreign nationals in our elections. We
have seen that foreign entities are able
to spend undisclosed amounts of money
to influence U.S. elections by using
subsidiaries, shell corporations, or ad-
vocacy groups to hide their influence.
In 2016, American Pacific Inter-
national Capital, a company owned by
Chinese nationals, used these loopholes
to donate $1.3 million to a super-PAC
in the Presidential election.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. REED. Mr. Chair, I yield the gen-
tleman an additional 15 seconds.
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Even in this
most recent election in 2018, Iran,
China, and Russia all attempted to in-
fluence American voters and policy.
Americans on both sides of the aisle
agree this is a critically important
issue that we must do something
about. The adoption of this amendment
will further codify the intent of Con-
gress to end unchecked foreign spend-
ing, which is the scourge of our democ-
racy.
Mr. Chair, I look forward to more
support for 20–20 legislative amend-
ments.
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Chair, I reserve the
remainder of my time to close.
Mr. REED. Mr. Chair, I have no other
speakers and am prepared to close.
Mr. Chairman, as we wrap up the de-
bate on this amendment, I hope we
have demonstrated that there is com-
mon ground to be found in this Cham-
ber.
I would like to take a moment to
thank, again, my colleagues, but also
the Rules Committee, Mr. MCGOVERN
and his staff, for working with us in re-
gards to this new reform of the rules
process that will reward and encourage
bipartisan behavior and bipartisan
common ground-finding efforts.
I encourage all Members on both
sides of the aisle: Utilize this new rule
path to bring forth ideas that benefit
the American people in a bipartisan
way.
At the end of the day, this amend-
ment is something we should all sup-
port for the reasons articulated by my
colleagues on the other side and as ar-
ticulated, hopefully, by myself today in
regards to supporting this reform that
goes at the issue of foreign money in
our elections.
Mr. Chair, I encourage our Members
to support this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Chairman, I want to
applaud my colead on this bill, this bi-
partisan bill, Congressman
FITZPATRICK, a Republican from Penn-
sylvania, who couldn’t be here today,
but he worked very hard on this, as did
the other colleagues who have spoken
here already.
The people of America are hungering
for bipartisanship. They are hungering
for people to work together to try and
solve the problems in this country.
We hope that the use of the 20–20 rule
and this amendment, with 24 Demo-
crats and 20 Republicans, is one small
step in that process to demonstrate
that people can work together to solve
problems.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. SUOZZI).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR.
BUTTERFIELD
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. CÁRDENAS).
It is now in order to consider amend-
ment No. 2 printed in part B of House
Report 116–16.
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 136, strike lines 6 through 11 and in-
sert the following:
‘‘(c) LOCATION OF POLLING PLACES.—
‘‘(1) PROXIMITY TO PUBLIC TRANSPOR-
TATION.—To the greatest extent practicable,
a State shall ensure that each polling place
which allows voting during an early voting
period under subsection (a) is located within
walking distance of a stop on a public trans-
portation route.
‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY IN RURAL AREAS.—The
State shall ensure that polling places which
allow voting during an early voting period
under subsection (a) will be located in rural
areas of the State, and shall ensure that such
polling places are located in communities
which will provide the greatest opportunity
for residents of rural areas to vote during
the early voting period.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from North Carolina.
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Chairman, I
rise in support of my amendment to
improve early voting in rural commu-
nities.
My amendment would ensure that
early voting locations in rural commu-
nities are placed strategically in com-
munities to provide the greatest access
to rural voters seeking to cast their
ballots.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting this amendment.
My amendment, Mr. Chairman, gets
to the heart of what we have been try-
ing to do here today with H.R. 1, and
that is to make voting easier.
My amendment builds on the under-
lying text of H.R. 1 that directs States
to locate early voting locations within
walking distance of stops on public
transportation routes by recognizing
that rural communities face very dif-
ferent challenges to voting as com-
pared to voters in urban communities.
In many rural communities, Mr.
Chairman, like the ones that I rep-
resent in eastern North Carolina, there
is no public transportation in many of
those communities, so polling loca-
tions in these communities need to be
located where these voters will have
the best chance to let their voices be
heard in our elections, and my amend-
ment would simply ensure that that
happens.
Mr. Chairman, rural communities are
facing many challenges, but their abil-
ity to participate in our elections
should not be one of those challenges. I
think all of us on both sides of the aisle
can agree on this.
During the markup at the com-
mittee, I got a good feeling about it,
and I hoped my friend from Illinois
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS) would be willing to
work with me in getting this amend-
ment passed.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support the amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.069 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2481
March 6, 2019
b 1715
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I claim time in opposition
to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I appreciate my good friend
and colleague from North Carolina’s
assertion that we have to be cognizant
of what is happening in rural America
and how, maybe a top-down approach
from Washington may not be the best
approach when we might not have pub-
lic transportation opportunities in
many of the rural areas that he and I
both serve.
But, as Mr. BUTTERFIELD is a member
of the House Administration Com-
mittee, I would have hoped that this
amendment would have been offered
during the committee markup, the
markup, the only markup that was
held on this 622-page bill. We offered 28
amendments on the Republican side
and not a single one was accepted.
These are the types of amendments I
would have loved to have seen have bi-
partisan support in the committee
process because I am from a rural area.
I understand it is sometimes difficult
for people in rural areas to vote.
But we have got to leave it up to the
States and localities to be able to de-
termine where these polling places are
going to go, especially in the rural
areas.
We have a hard enough time having
somebody here in Washington figure
out where everybody is going to be in
an office every 2 years. Can you imag-
ine somebody in a concrete building
out here in Washington, D.C., deter-
mining where a polling place should or
should not be in a town that I rep-
resent in central Illinois?
That is my problem with this bill; it
is a top-down approach that takes
away the ability for locals to really
truly get polling places in areas that
are accessible for every voter to be able
to cast their vote.
Mr. Chairman, I want every single
American to be able to vote. Every
vote, every single vote in every Amer-
ican vote deserves to be counted and
protected.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Chairman,
the gentleman from Illinois would re-
member that at the subcommittee
markup, or the full committee mark-
up, we did have a very healthy con-
versation about this topic. I acknowl-
edge that no amendment was offered at
the committee, but I felt a consensus,
Mr. DAVIS, when we discussed it at the
committee, and I thought that it would
be accepted by the other side.
But suffice it to say that rural com-
munities deserve to have polling loca-
tions that are convenient to all of its
citizens. We are talking about Federal
elections, not local elections, so I
would ask my colleagues to reconsider
and support this amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. SARBANES).
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, and
I want to thank him for his work on
House Administration. I know, as well,
that Congressman ANTHONY BROWN
helped with this particular amend-
ment.
This is really critical. This is all
about, and H.R. 1, in large part, is
about the journey to the ballot box,
and how do we make that journey easi-
er for people; how do we make sure
that they can get there without too
much of an undue burden; and that is
what this would do for rural voters.
This would require that States en-
sure that the polling places are located
in rural areas. So this idea that some-
body in Washington is going to be de-
ciding where the location is, that is
preposterous. We are just saying make
sure that the State figures it out; and
so each State can decide what makes
the most sense in terms of placing
these voting places for rural voters.
So it is a very, very commonsense
amendment. I want to thank the gen-
tleman for introducing it and, defi-
nitely, I support it.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, my colleague from North
Carolina is right. We had a good,
healthy discussion on how rural voters
could be adversely impacted by the
original language that was in the bill
that would have required polling places
to be next to areas of mass transit.
Well, as we both know, there are
many areas we serve that don’t have
access to mass transit. My problem is
not with what this amendment does.
My problem, again, is with the process.
My problem is how are we going to
determine—and my biggest fear is that
if Washington is determining where
polling places should go, maybe we are
not allowing the locals to determine
best how to ensure that voters get easi-
est access to being able to cast their
vote.
I want to work with the gentleman
from North Carolina to address many
rural needs, especially when it comes
to our oversight responsibility of elec-
tions. And I certainly hope—I do be-
lieve this amendment will pass—and I
certainly hope, if it becomes a law,
which I don’t believe H.R. 1 will be-
come law, but I would really encourage
us to be able to work together after
this is done and maybe work in a sepa-
rate fashion to address rural voting
communities’ needs. And I look for-
ward to working with the gentleman.
Mr. Chairman, I know we have a lot
of amendments, so I will go ahead and
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Chair, let
me thank the gentleman for his com-
ments and thank him for his friend-
ship. The gentleman is right; we do
serve on the House Administration
Committee together. He is the ranking
member of the committee and Ms. LOF-
GREN is the chair. We will have many
opportunities to work together, and I
look forward to working with the gen-
tleman and all of the committee on
very important issues as we go for-
ward.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. RASKIN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 3 printed in
part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 383, after line 19, add the following
new section:
SEC. 4502. ASSESSMENT OF SHAREHOLDER PREF-
ERENCES FOR DISBURSEMENTS FOR
POLITICAL PURPOSES.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—The Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 10D the
following:
‘‘SEC. 10E. ASSESSMENT OF SHAREHOLDER PREF-
ERENCES FOR DISBURSEMENTS FOR
POLITICAL PURPOSES.
‘‘(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED BEFORE MAKING
A DISBURSEMENT FOR A POLITICAL PURPOSE.—
‘‘(1) REQUIREMENT.—An issuer with an eq-
uity security listed on a national securities
exchange may not make a disbursement for
a political purpose unless—
‘‘(A) the issuer has in place procedures to
assess the preferences of the shareholders of
the issuer with respect to making such dis-
bursements; and
‘‘(B) such an assessment has been made
within the 1-year period ending on the date
of such disbursement.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF ISSUERS WHOSE SHARE-
HOLDERS ARE PROHIBITED FROM EXPRESSING
PREFERENCES.—Notwithstanding paragraph
(1), an issuer described under such paragraph
with procedures in place to assess the pref-
erences of its shareholders with respect to
making disbursements for political purposes
shall not be considered to meet the require-
ments of such paragraph if a majority of the
number of the outstanding equity securities
of the issuer are held by persons who are pro-
hibited from expressing partisan or political
preferences by law, contract, or the require-
ment to meet a fiduciary duty.
‘‘(b) ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS.—The as-
sessment described under subsection (a) shall
assess—
‘‘(1) which types of disbursements for a po-
litical purpose the shareholder believes the
issuer should make;
‘‘(2) whether the shareholder believes that
such disbursements should be made in sup-
port of, or in opposition to, Republican,
Democratic, Independent, or other political
party candidates and political committees;
‘‘(3) whether the shareholder believes that
such disbursements should be made with re-
spect to elections for Federal, State, or local
office; and
‘‘(4) such other information as the Com-
mission may specify, by rule.
‘‘(c) DISBURSEMENT FOR A POLITICAL PUR-
POSE DEFINED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, the term ‘disbursement for a political
purpose’ means any of the following:
‘‘(A) A disbursement for an independent ex-
penditure, as defined in section 301(17) of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30101(17)).
‘‘(B) A disbursement for an electioneering
communication, as defined in section 304(f)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.073 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2482 March 6, 2019
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30104(f)).
‘‘(C) A disbursement for any public com-
munication, as defined in section 301(22) of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30101(22)—
‘‘(i) which expressly advocates the election
or defeat of a clearly identified candidate for
election for Federal office, or is the func-
tional equivalent of express advocacy be-
cause, when taken as a whole, it can be in-
terpreted by a reasonable person only as ad-
vocating the election or defeat of a can-
didate for election for Federal office; or
‘‘(ii) which refers to a clearly identified
candidate for election for Federal office and
which promotes or support a candidate for
that office, or attacks or opposes a candidate
for that office, without regard to whether
the communication expressly advocates a
vote for or against a candidate for that of-
fice.
‘‘(D) Any other disbursement which is
made for the purpose of influencing the out-
come of an election for a public office.
‘‘(E) Any transfer of funds to another per-
son which is made with the intent that such
person will use the funds to make a disburse-
ment described in subparagraphs (A) through
(D), or with the knowledge that the person
will use the funds to make such a disburse-
ment.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTIONS.—The term ‘disbursement
for a political purpose’ does not include any
of the following:
‘‘(A) Any disbursement made from a sepa-
rate segregated fund of the corporation
under section 316 of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30118).
‘‘(B) Any transfer of funds to another per-
son which is made in a commercial trans-
action in the ordinary course of any trade or
business conducted by the corporation or in
the form of investments made by the cor-
poration.
‘‘(C) Any transfer of funds to another per-
son which is subject to a written prohibition
against the use of the funds for a disburse-
ment for a political purpose.
‘‘(d) OTHER DEFINITIONS.—In this section,
each of the terms ‘candidate’, ‘election’, ‘po-
litical committee’, and ‘political party’ has
the meaning given such term under section
301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO FEDERAL
ELECTION CAMPAIGN ACT OF 1971 TO PROHIBIT
DISBURSEMENTS BY CORPORATIONS FAILING TO
ASSESS PREFERENCES.—Section 316 of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30118) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(d) PROHIBITING DISBURSEMENTS BY COR-
PORATIONS FAILING TO ASSESS SHAREHOLDER
PREFERENCES.—
‘‘(1) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for
a corporation to make a disbursement for a
political purpose unless the corporation has
in place procedures to assess the preferences
of its shareholders with respect to making
such disbursements, as provided in section
10E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
‘‘(2) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘disbursement for a political purpose’ has the
meaning given such term in section 10E(c) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to disbursements made on or after December
31, 2019.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. RASKIN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume, and I
rise to offer this amendment to H.R. 1.
For decades, the law prevented busi-
ness corporations from engaging in
campaign spending. But the Supreme
Court destroyed that prohibition with
its watershed decision in 2010, in the
Citizens United case, which, for the
first time, defined for-profit business
corporations as political membership
associations and, thereby, unleashed
billions of dollars in corporate treasury
money into the political system.
Since then, corporations have taken
advantage of this newfound constitu-
tional identity and political freedom
by investing hundreds of millions of
dollars, perhaps billions, in campaign
expenditures and the torrent of ‘‘dark
money’’ now coursing through the po-
litical system.
But who are these corporations
speaking for?
Well, according to the court, they are
speaking for the shareholders. Writing
for the majority, Justice Kennedy took
the position that corporate political
campaigning is on behalf of the share-
holders, an association of individuals
who have taken on the corporate form.
But, in reality, we know that CEOs
engage in political spending without
the knowledge, much less the consent
of the shareholders whose First
Amendment rights are allegedly being
exercised.
Anyone who has a retirement fund
with money invested in corporate equi-
ties will know that they have never
been asked whether they want a por-
tion of their retirement money in-
vested in Republican or Democratic or
other campaigns. The CEOs just do it
without their participation.
What can be done to stop share-
holders’ money from being spent on
campaigns without their knowledge or
consent?
Most Americans want a constitu-
tional amendment to reverse Citizens
United and restore the definition of
corporations as economic entities
barred from politics. But there is some-
thing that we can do right now, short
of that, simply by enforcing Citizens
United on its own terms. Justice Ken-
nedy said the main check against abuse
of this new right would be exercised by
the ‘‘shareholders through the proce-
dures of corporate democracy.’’
Justice Kennedy assumed a world of
comprehensive and immediate disclo-
sure. He wrote: ‘‘Shareholder objec-
tions raised through the procedures of
corporate democracy can be more ef-
fective today because modern tech-
nology makes disclosures rapid and in-
formative. With the advent of the
Internet, prompt disclosure of expendi-
tures can provide shareholders and citi-
zens with the information needed to
hold corporations and elected officials
accountable . . . citizens can see
whether elected officials are in the
pocket of so-called moneyed interests.’’
But the current system provides
nothing like that kind of transparency
and accountability. This amendment,
the Shareholders United Act of 2019,
will begin to change the secrecy, dark-
ness, and oligarchical implications of
the current system.
It would require publicly-traded cor-
porations to get shareholder buy-in on
the front end before their money is
channeled into political campaigns.
Companies would have to develop a
process to assess shareholder pref-
erences for political spending, and
make any such spending within a year
of assessing the majority’s preferences.
Moreover, the amendment recognizes
that some shareholders are institu-
tional investors, like pension funds,
States, and cities, mutual funds, uni-
versities or charities, which are cat-
egorically forbidden from expressing
partisan political preferences.
If this type of investor holds a major-
ity of corporate shares, the corporation
would not be able to make expendi-
tures from the general treasury be-
cause the CEO, at that point, would
paradoxically be speaking for institu-
tional shareholders that may not
themselves speak in politics.
Citizens are begging for this kind of
commonsense regulation and pro-
motion of corporate democracy. People
invest in the stock market to save for
retirement, or to send their kids to col-
lege, not to support their favorite po-
litical candidates, much less their
most disfavored ones.
I know that I would be mad as hell to
learn that my retirement money was
being spent, being given away to Don-
ald Trump and the RNC; just as I as-
sume my GOP friends don’t want their
pension dollars going to the DNC or to
help ELIZABETH WARREN’s Presidential
campaign.
People who invest in the stock mar-
ket should not be used as the pawns for
the political designs of CEOs. I urge my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
support this commonsense amendment
called for by Justice Kennedy’s opinion
in Citizens United.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I claim time in opposition
to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, again, as I mentioned ear-
lier, I would have liked to have seen
these amendments offered during our
House Administration markup as my
good friend from Maryland is also a
member of the House Administration
Committee.
There was some discussion on issues
like this and I was under the impres-
sion, during that markup process, that
provisions like my opponent put into
this amendment were already part of
the bill.
But let me add, this amendment
would turn businesses and corporations
into partisan political entities and
shareholder meetings and votes into
political conventions.
It would require corporations to poll
their shareholders on whether the cor-
poration’s political spending should be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.017 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2483
March 6, 2019
made in support of, in opposition to
Republican, Democratic, Independent,
or other political party candidates and
political committees.
Business decisions drive corpora-
tions’ political spending. This would
inject partisan political considerations
into corporate political spending.
And let me remind the American peo-
ple, corporations are banned by law
currently to be able to give directly to
candidates or to organizations that
will directly support or oppose can-
didates during an election cycle. This
is going to further polarize our polit-
ical environment.
This amendment also relies on un-
constitutionally vague and intent-
based standards for what corporate
spending is covered by the shareholder
preference assessment requirement. It
is going to encourage the current prac-
tice of activists taking hold of proxy
advisory firms to socially engineer
public policies through proxy share-
holder votes. There is no transparency
to proxy advisory firms.
I am opposed to this amendment be-
cause it is vague and impractical, and
would, again, infringe upon free speech.
It is not clear what speech is covered
under this amendment and that is, per-
haps, the worst part.
The practical effect of this amend-
ment would be that the companies
would not have shareholder elections
under this new standard. Many would
probably stop paying dues to trade as-
sociations because the language might
be construed to cover that. That would
be a bomb on many of the largest and
most important trade groups. No simi-
lar requirement for other organizations
as part of this bill, of course.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for those thoughtful com-
ments. The ranking member of the
House Administration Committee con-
tends that we talked about this in the
House Administration Committee
which, indeed, we did, and it was pre-
cisely that discussion which led to the
formation of the amendment.
I am afraid there he is just protesting
against the character of the legislative
process. We have a discussion; we learn
things; we develop new amendments.
And for a moment there it sounded like
he wanted to vote for it, but then he
turns to say that the problem with this
amendment is that it would politicize
the corporation, which is quite an as-
tounding argument to make against it,
when the entire purpose of our amend-
ment is to prevent corporations from
engaging in political expenditures and
dark-money spending without the con-
sent and the knowledge of the share-
holders.
If you object to corporations being
engaged in partisan political activity,
then you should support this amend-
ment, because it is precisely this
amendment that will prevent it from
happening if the shareholders don’t
want it to.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
b 1730
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, may I inquire how much time is
remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Illinois has 21⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, look, I don’t own too many
stocks outside of mutual funds, but I
do have one that I get statements to
ask me to cast a vote for those mem-
bers who are currently members of the
board of directors or running to be.
What I do is use the disclosure data-
base OpenSecrets. I find out the polit-
ical spending of these individuals who
are going to determine the outcome of
the stock that I have invested in that,
hopefully, will grow in value, because
that is why people invest in the stock
market, and that is why people invest
in corporate entities that may be pub-
licly traded.
The problem I have with this amend-
ment is I thought corporate money
wasn’t supposed to go to candidates. I
don’t take corporate dollars. Frankly, I
am probably one of the ones standing
in this institution tonight who had
many of these super-PAC dollars spent
against me in the last election. They
can’t take corporate dollars.
But the issue at hand is, in another
part of the bill where this new Freedom
From Influence Fund is put together,
they are now going to use corporate
dollars to create a fund that is flowing
through the Federal Treasury that
should be going to infrastructure,
should be going to pediatric cancer re-
search. Instead, it is going to flow into
this new shell that is going to have
corporate money go directly to con-
gressional candidates, which is illegal
now.
That, to me, is the biggest problem
with this bill, and that, to me, is a
problem with this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I look forward to a discus-
sion on many other amendments
throughout this long evening.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. RASKIN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Maryland will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. HASTINGS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 4 printed in
part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment to H.R. 1, the For
the People Act of 2019, that I have of-
fered with my good friend from my
neighboring district, Congressman TED
DEUTCH.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 140, insert after line 19 the following:
‘‘(3) REPORT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the end of a Federal election cycle,
each chief State election official shall sub-
mit to Congress a report containing the fol-
lowing information for the applicable Fed-
eral election cycle in the State:
‘‘(i) The number of ballots invalidated due
to a discrepancy under this subsection.
‘‘(ii) Description of attempts to contact
voters to provide notice as required by this
subsection.
‘‘(iii) Description of the cure process devel-
oped by such State pursuant to this sub-
section, including the number of ballots de-
termined valid as a result of such process.
‘‘(B) FEDERAL ELECTION CYCLE DEFINED.—
For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘Federal election cycle’ means the period be-
ginning on January 1 of any odd numbered
year and ending on December 31 of the fol-
lowing year.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. HASTINGS) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Florida.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Chair, the right
to vote is sacred and fundamental. Yet
across this country, in particular in
my home State of Florida, voters were
denied their right to vote because of
penmanship.
In the wake of the 2018 midterms,
Florida’s signature matching law was
deemed unconstitutional because it al-
lowed county election officials to re-
ject vote-by-mail ballots for mis-
matched signatures, with no standards,
an illusory cure process, and no process
to challenge the rejection.
Ballots being rejected because of per-
ceived signature mismatch heavily af-
fect voters already at the margins:
trans and gender-nonconforming peo-
ple, people with disabilities, people for
whom English is a second language,
military personnel, and women.
I am very pleased to see that H.R. 1
would protect voters’ due process
rights when it comes to signature
matching laws by requiring proper no-
tice and an opportunity to cure.
My amendment, amendment No. 4,
builds on that by requiring States to
submit a report to Congress after the
end of a Federal election cycle regard-
ing the number of ballots invalidated
due to a discrepancy in a voter’s signa-
ture, the attempts to contact voters to
provide notice that a discrepancy ex-
ists between the signature on the bal-
lot and the signature of the voter on
the official list of registered voters,
and the cure process and results.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I claim the time in opposi-
tion to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.075 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2484 March 6, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, while I appreciate my good
friend from Florida’s amendment, this
amendment doesn’t go far enough. It
does nothing to stem the practice of
ballot harvesting.
Ballot harvesting is a practice of
States allowing any person to collect
any number of absentee ballots and
then deliver them to the polls. It could
be even after election day.
This practice, of course, is ripe for
fraud, and we saw most recently in
North Carolina how it can be abused to
the advantage of political campaigns.
In North Carolina’s Ninth District,
the individual who harvested ballots
for a Republican, where we will now
have a special election, was caught be-
cause the practice is illegal. It is un-
likely that he would have been caught
in a State like California, because the
practice is perfectly legal.
Take the current law in California. A
signature is invalid if the ballot turned
in by a harvester doesn’t match a sig-
nature in the voter file, but the cam-
paign can cure this by getting the
voter in question to submit an affidavit
that they voted. Then that signature
only has to match the signature in the
voter file, not the signature on the bal-
lot.
A harvester could theoretically take
a bunch of ballots, submit them with
forged signatures, and then collect sig-
natures afterward, since the campaigns
would later get a list of the signatures
that were rejected.
Loose standards relating to providing
notice to voters whose signatures were
mismatched, as well as a lengthy cure
process without any safeguards, dis-
enfranchises voters who showed up and
cast votes before or on election day.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Chairman, I ap-
preciate my good friend’s suggestions,
but this is my amendment. I didn’t
have anything to do with ballot har-
vesting, and I imagine that there are
others who are going to address that
particular subject.
Mr. Chair, I yield the balance of my
time to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. LOFGREN), the chairman of
the committee.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I would
just note that the ballot harvesting
issue, I think, has very little to do with
the amendment offered by Mr. HAS-
TINGS and that the remedy that has
been suggested by my friend, Mr.
DAVIS, was to use the system that was
in place in North Carolina. Obviously,
that didn’t work. The remedy to fraud
is prosecution, which is what is hap-
pening in North Carolina.
I would note that, as we mentioned
at the Rules Committee last night, in
California, you can give your ballot
that is sealed not only to your son, but
to your next-door neighbor. You might
be an elderly person who doesn’t have
family around.
There has been no credible allegation
of fraud, and we had monitors from
both the Republican and Democratic
parties, people from House Administra-
tion. There was no credible allegation
of a problem.
Mr. Chair, let’s not compare apples
and oranges. Let’s support Mr. HAS-
TINGS’ amendment.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. HASTINGS).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. COLE
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in
part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Strike subtitle G of title IV.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oklahoma.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today in support of my amendment to
H.R. 1.
Mr. Chairman, this is a commonsense
amendment that will maintain current
law. Beginning with the National De-
fense Authorization Act of 2012 and
continuing to appropriation processes
for every fiscal year since, I sponsored
an amendment that barred the govern-
ment from requiring Federal contrac-
tors to disclose campaign contributions
as a condition for submitting a bid on
a Federal contract. The amendment
was adopted by the House on at least
four separate occasions on a bipartisan
basis and was signed into law by Presi-
dent Obama.
Since H.R. 1 would remove this prohi-
bition, I offer this amendment today to
ensure that this ban remains in law. I
have strong concerns that H.R. 1 at-
tempts to repeal this provision.
If the Federal Government would re-
quire contractors to disclose campaign
contributions, it is only human nature
that information like that would influ-
ence decisions on Federal contracts, re-
gardless of what the law requires and
what a contracting office is required to
do. If we are interested in enshrining a
pay-to-play culture as part of the con-
tracting process, the Democratic pro-
posal will do just that.
Mr. Chairman, it has never been a
good idea to mix politics and con-
tracting. The danger of that is obvious.
The information that could be required
of contractors in the absence of this
protection is not necessary to evaluate
a bid made by a Federal contractor. It
raises legitimate fears of political re-
taliation. If the information isn’t nec-
essary for the bid or the evaluation of
the bid, then it is not necessary for the
government to have it in the first place
and run the risk that it might be mis-
used.
All that I am asking, Mr. Chairman,
is that we leave the law as it is, the
disclosure requirements as they are,
and ensure that political contributions
do not become a new litmus test to re-
ceive a government contract.
Mr. Chair, for those reasons, I urge
adoption of the amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from California is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
The gentleman’s amendment to H.R.
1 would keep in place a provision of law
that was inserted into must-pass pieces
of legislation over the past few years.
It makes it harder for voters to follow
the money when it comes to govern-
ment contractors and political spend-
ing.
The amendment is anathema to the
purposes of H.R. 1, which is to bolster
confidence and trust in the American
Government and shine a light on secret
spending in elections. The gentlemen’s
amendment would further the status
quo of dark money in our elections,
and it would protect a culture of pay-
to-play politics that Americans reject.
Republicans in Congress, as Mr. COLE
has mentioned, first included this lan-
guage in the 2012 appropriations bill,
then the 2014 appropriations bill, and
finally in the 2015 Consolidated Appro-
priations Act.
H.R. 1, in title IV, subtitle G, repeals
the restriction on requiring disclosure
of campaign-related spending by those
submitting an offer for a Federal con-
tract. Repealing this restriction will
curb the appearance of corruption that
can go along with campaign-related
money in government contracts. It will
shine a light on dark money in politics.
Americans have a right to know who
is trying to influence them with polit-
ical advertisements and campaign
spending and what big campaign spend-
ers want from the government in re-
turn.
The Federal Government spends hun-
dreds of billions of dollars a year on
Federal contracts. Campaign-related
spending should have nothing to do
with influencing a contract, and disclo-
sure will protect the integrity of the
process and curb any appearance of
corruption.
After the Supreme Court decided
Citizens United in 2010, undisclosed
sources have spent more than $950 mil-
lion in dark money to influence Fed-
eral elections, according to the non-
partisan Center for Responsive Poli-
tics. The money flows through a com-
plex web of corporations, dark money,
nonprofit organizations, super-PACs,
and other groups. When money from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.079 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2485
March 6, 2019
government contractors enters this
web, it poses the exact type of threat
to the integrity of our democratic sys-
tem that our campaign finance laws
are intended to protect against.
While Federal law prohibits con-
tracting entities from contributing to
political candidates and parties, their
directors, officers, and other affiliates
could still give unlimited sums of dark
money to groups that do not disclose
their campaign-related donors, and
that is why H.R. 1 would repeal the re-
striction on disclosure.
b 1745
The court held 8 to 1 in Citizens
United that ‘‘The First Amendment
protects political speech; and disclo-
sure permits citizens and shareholders
to react to the speech of corporate en-
tities in a proper way. This trans-
parency enables the electorate to make
informed decisions and give proper
weight to different speakers and mes-
sages.’’
The public has a right to follow the
money, including money from govern-
ment contractors to dark-money
groups that did not disclose their
spending.
H.R. 1 ensures disclosure and trans-
parency, both of which are critical to
open and responsive democracy that
protects the public interest. And this
amendment, although I am sure well-
intentioned, takes us in the wrong di-
rection.
Mr. Chairman, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
this amendment, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. NOR-
MAN), my good friend.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chairman, I am a
contractor. We do business and we
build projects. If you want to see some-
thing that is going to skyrocket cost,
the fact of asking what party and
where they donate money has nothing
to do with transparency. It just has to
do with what political affiliation you
have and it could weigh heavily in who
is selected for a job, which has nothing
to do with the job that you are doing.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of
Congressman COLE’s amendment to
maintain the status quo and prevent
the government from using politics as
a litmus test when evaluating bids
from contractors.
When the government buys goods or
services, the only concern should be
getting the best job at the best price,
not who the company did or did not do-
nate to in the last election. Companies
should compete on value, not party
loyalty.
We see what happens when politics
influences who receives government
money. Let me give you an example.
In December 2011, The Washington
Post released a bombshell report find-
ing ‘‘Obama’s green technology pro-
gram was infused with politics at every
level.’’
The Post found, through its review of
thousands of memos and emails, that
‘‘Political considerations were raised
repeatedly by company investors, En-
ergy Department bureaucrats, and
White House officials.’’
Do you know what the result was?
$500 million of taxpayer money went to
a solar company, Solyndra, which went
bankrupt. We can’t let that happen
again, but that is what requiring com-
panies bidding on contracts to disclose
their political activity as part of the
bid process would lead to.
Also troubling about this provision of
H.R. 1 is that it repeals something we
all just agreed to less than 1 month
ago. If this amendment isn’t adopted,
H.R. 1 will repeal a provision of the
funding bill we just passed.
Two hundred and thirteen Democrats
voted for the funding bill. I know this
is a town of evolving political positions
and flip-flopping, but I think that
might just set a new record. I can’t be-
lieve this body would vote for some-
thing like this and a month after to re-
peal it. Back home they call that a bait
and switch.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I
would just note that when a rider is
added to the appropriations bill, you
have to vote for the whole package to
keep the government open.
Mr. Chairman, I yield the remainder
of my time to the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. SARBANES).
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chairman, as
you know from the discussion today,
we obviously feel very strongly that
there needs to be as much disclosure as
possible and transparency and account-
ability when it comes to how money
flows into the political arena. I think
the public has a particular apprehen-
sion about how insidious spending can
be when it has to do with government
contractors. The public deserves to
know who is spending in their politics
and, particularly, if contractors—who
are the ones who are going to get these
government contracts—are spending in
a way that could potentially influence
the contracting decisions. In a sense,
what is happening is people are leaning
on the government potentially using
money and influence in a way that cuts
against what the public interests
might be.
That is why prohibiting the execu-
tive branch from even considering—
that is what this rider does. It actually
prohibits the executive branch from
even sitting down and considering
whether there should be certain rules
that should govern what happens in the
contractor space in terms of political
spending. That doesn’t make any sense.
That doesn’t make common sense that
the executive branch ought to be able
to figure out some rules so that that
transparency is in place.
That is why we want to repeal it.
That is why we have that in H.R. 1. I
oppose this amendment that would
strike the repeal.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, may I in-
quire how much time I have remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oklahoma has 1 minute remain-
ing.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I want to
disagree very profoundly with my
friend.
Frankly, what this amendment does
is keep politics out of contracting. My
friends want to put politics back into
contracting. The decisions, as my
friend, Mr. NORMAN, mentioned, on
contracts, ought to be made on the
basis of the quality of the bid and the
quality of the job. There is no reason
to ask for political information when
you are evaluating whether or not a
bridge should be built or whether or
not a road should be paved and who
should do that.
Frankly, what we are going to do is
inject politics by requiring the list of
political contributors. If you don’t
think that will matter, I think you are
being painfully naive.
Mr. Chairman, I urge support of the
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Oklahoma will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MS. SCANLON
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 6 printed in
part B of House Report 116–16.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 311, insert after line 8 the following
new subtitle (and conform the succeeding
subtitles accordingly):
Subtitle F—Election Security Grants
Advisory Committee
SEC. 3501. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A of title II of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
20921 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘PART 4—ELECTION SECURITY GRANTS
ADVISORY COMMITTEE
‘‘SEC. 225. ELECTION SECURITY GRANTS ADVI-
SORY COMMITTEE.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is hereby es-
tablished an advisory committee (herein-
after in this part referred to as the ‘Com-
mittee’) to assist the Commission with re-
spect to the award of grants to States under
this Act for the purpose of election security.
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Committee shall,
with respect to an application for a grant re-
ceived by the Commission—
‘‘(A) review such application; and
‘‘(B) recommend to the Commission wheth-
er to award the grant to the applicant.
‘‘(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In reviewing an ap-
plication pursuant to paragraph (1)(A), the
Committee shall consider—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.081 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2486 March 6, 2019
‘‘(A) the record of the applicant with re-
spect to—
‘‘(i) compliance of the applicant with the
requirements under subtitle A of title III;
and
‘‘(ii) adoption of voluntary guidelines
issued by the Commission under subtitle B of
title III; and
‘‘(B) the goals and requirements of election
security as described in title III of the For
the People Act of 2019.
‘‘(c) MEMBERSHIP.—The Committee shall be
composed of 15 individuals appointed by the
Executive Director of the Commission with
experience and expertise in election security.
‘‘(d) NO COMPENSATION FOR SERVICE.—Mem-
bers of the Committee shall not receive any
compensation for their service, but shall be
paid travel expenses, including per diem in
lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for
employees of agencies under subchapter I of
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code,
while away from their homes or regular
places of business in the performance of serv-
ices for the Committee.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. SCANLON) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chairman, my
first amendment is amendment No. 6.
This straightforward amendment
would establish a committee of elec-
tion security experts to review grant
requests to ensure that funds for elec-
tion security infrastructure are best
spent.
This committee would be established
under the Election Assistance Commis-
sion, the EAC, and act alongside the
three existing Federal advisory com-
mittees that were created under the
Help America Vote Act.
Currently, the three existing boards
have advisory and oversight respon-
sibilities to assist the EAC in carrying
out its mission under the law and re-
viewing voluntary voter system guide-
lines. There is not, however, enough ex-
pertise within these three committees
to properly determine how funds re-
lated to election security grants are
best spent.
Election security is one of the crit-
ical pillars of H.R. 1, and my amend-
ment would help ensure that the EAC
has everything it needs to properly vet
grants to help improve and secure vot-
ing systems across the United States.
Mr. Chairman, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chairman, I
rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Arizona is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chairman,
having read over the amendment, there
are a couple of concerns I want to walk
you through. And please understand, I
am one of those—I co-chair the
Blockchain Caucus. I have a fascina-
tion with could we ever move to
encrypted blockchain security of these
levels of information.
But if you actually walk through this
amendment, it is a little hollow in its
details. The executive director gets to
appoint a 15-member, we will call it,
committee. Tell me that those 15 mem-
bers in this amendment can’t have re-
lationships with a certain security
firm, or with a certain vendor, or with
certain things. I will argue that you
are creating now functionally a fourth
committee within the commission and
handing an awful lot of power to the
executive director without a lot of
guidelines, that should actually, in
many ways, make both Democrats and
Republicans a bit nervous.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chairman, the in-
tent of the amendment is to establish a
committee that parallels the three ex-
isting committees and, therefore,
would use the same properties as those
committees for appointment, et cetera.
The gentleman who argued against
the last amendment was suggesting
that it would be too intrusive to inter-
ject too much specificity in the amend-
ment, so I guess we have a flip situa-
tion here. But the idea is to parallel
the three existing commissions and
have the 15-person committee ap-
pointed using the same processes.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chairman, I
appreciate and I love the concepts of
technology. I am really concerned.
This should actually be a bipartisan
concern, because at some point is that
executive director going to be one
party or another, or demonstrate cer-
tain political bias?
But if you hand sole authority to the
executive director to appoint a 15-
member commission that is going to
establish saying, here is how we are
going to review these grants and what
sort of grants and direction, I am
sorry, but you are creating all sorts of
both policy leakage here, potentially a
favoritism to certain either tech-
nologies or securities or firms.
I don’t have a problem with the at-
tention. I think it is actually an au-
thority that should have been given to
one of the other committees instead of
creating a fourth one, because we have
this tendency, as Members of Congress,
to sort of create bureaucracies on top
of bureaucracies.
But please understand—and I am
being as genuine as I can—I fear that it
may not happen now, it may not hap-
pen for a few years, but you are cre-
ating, as technology changes, as there
will be a time in our future where I
may be voting through a blockchain
technology on my phone, have you just
created the very commission that actu-
ally said: Hey, here is the security me-
chanics. Oh, by the way, our security
mechanics favor the seven people who
actually have a relationship to this
particular security encryption who
have a friend who is a friend? I am
sorry; it is just not designed with
enough comfort when this is about our
voting system.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chairman, I ap-
preciate the fact that we share a com-
mon concern about our election secu-
rity and an interest in using the best
technology to protect that security.
The intent here is to make sure that
we are spending congressional dollars
wisely as there are these grants being
awarded. The amendment was devised,
after hearing from interested parties,
that there was not sufficient expertise
on the three existing committees. And
I would suggest that if the dangers,
which the word the gentleman has sug-
gested, were to come to pass, that that
would be an excellent opportunity for
congressional oversight.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chairman,
how much time do I have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Arizona has 2 minutes remaining.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chairman,
having been here for a little while, be
careful—good intentions—and when
people often bring those issues and
bring those—be careful. You may have
good intentions. And the intentions of
often those who bring us a thought or
an issue, until we have vetted whether
they have particular potential eco-
nomic interests—I am just sharing my
concern—the amendment, just as it is
designed right now, our side is going to
have to vote no because we create a
fourth level. We don’t create enough
definitions. We hand so much power to
the executive director.
Mr. Chairman, I would love to talk to
the gentlewoman about election
encryption and my personal fixation on
blockchain technology. But for this
one, I think we may miss the mark.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1800
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I yield 1
minute to the much more experienced
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. SAR-
BANES).
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania
(Ms. SCANLON) for yielding, and I thank
her for her amendment.
I would just say very quickly, I think
this is a good amendment that actually
improves the bill. And to the point of
the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
SCHWEIKERT), it is because technology
is changing quickly all the time and
one has to kind of keep ahead of the
curve on that to make sure the deci-
sions are made in a sensible way, that
having a committee that can assemble
the kind of expertise that you need to
bring to bear on a decision like this
makes perfect sense. It can allow the
EAC to function better.
Evaluating these security grants, I
think, makes a lot of sense, and they
can keep up-to-date on what the chang-
ing technology is so that the EAC can
benefit from that input.
So I think it is an outstanding
amendment. I want to thank the gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.022 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2487
March 6, 2019
SCANLON) for introducing it. I support
it.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I urge a
‘‘yes’’ vote on the amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
SCANLON).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MS. SCANLON
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 7 printed in
part B of House Report 116–16.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I have a
second amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 454, insert after line 23 the following
(and conform the succeeding section accord-
ingly):
SEC. 5114. STUDY AND REPORT ON SMALL DOL-
LAR FINANCING PROGRAM.
(a) STUDY AND REPORT.—Not later than 2
years after the completion of the first elec-
tion cycle in which the program established
under title V of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971, as added by section 5111, is
in effect, the Federal Election Commission
shall—
(1) assess—
(A) the amount of payment referred to in
section 501 of such Act; and
(B) the amount of a qualified small dollar
contribution referred to in section 504(a)(1)
of such Act; and
(2) submit to Congress a report that dis-
cuses whether such amounts are sufficient to
meet the goals of the program.
(b) UPDATE.—The Commission shall update
and revise the study and report required by
subsection (a) on a biennial basis.
(c) TERMINATION.—The requirements of this
section shall terminate ten years after the
date on which the first study and report re-
quired by subsection (a) is submitted to Con-
gress.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. SCANLON) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, my next
amendment is Amendment No. 7.
The amendment would require the
Federal Election Comission to conduct
a study to specifically assess whether
the small donor match cap and the 6-
to-1 ratio contained in H.R. 1 is appro-
priately scaled for both House and Sen-
ate elections.
H.R. 1 will empower everyday Ameri-
cans through each of these systems by
bringing more and more people into the
political fold.
This system of small donor campaign
funding is relatively new to the Fed-
eral system but has been tried in
States and localities nationwide to
great effect. New York City has had a
matching funds program in place since
the 1980s, and over 80 percent of the
2015 Connecticut State Legislature was
elected under the Citizens’ Election
public financing program.
It is important and necessary to
study these issues at the Federal level,
and my amendment would ensure that
the Federal Government has all of the
relevant information it needs when
proceeding with any future changes to
these programs.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chair, I rise
in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Arizona is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chair, I actu-
ally appreciate the study mechanisms,
but this is actually one a little bit
broader.
How many of us are from States that
have actually had public funding or
public matching of our State legisla-
tures?
I am from Arizona; I have actually
lived this experience. And do under-
stand, we used to—in Arizona—refer to
it as the ‘‘no new moderates’’ piece of
legislation.
If you actually look at what hap-
pened to Arizona—and my under-
standing is this happened in other
States—personal experience: I was 28
years old when I got elected to the Ari-
zona Legislature.
I was there. You had to go knock on
a door. You had to ask someone for a
couple hundred dollars. You had to lis-
ten to them. They would look you in
the eye, and if they thought you
weren’t worthy, you walked out the
door without anything. It turns out
asking for money is part of the vetting
process.
Well, a few years later—so we have
had it for 25 years in Arizona—here is
what happened:
You are part of the group over here
on the right or you are part of this
group on the left. In Arizona, you get a
couple hundred people to write you a $5
contribution, and you get elected.
Within two election cycles, we wiped
out half of Democrats, half of Repub-
licans, maybe one-third of the body
who were in the moderates.
So when I was in that State legisla-
ture for 4 years, half the Republicans
were conservatives, half the Repub-
licans were moderate; same thing on
the Democratic side. After just func-
tionally 4 years of public funding or
public match, they were gone.
I appreciate the study of saying: Hey,
this amendment is really about know-
ing, you know, do the dollars match, do
the mechanisms match? And I don’t
know if the FEC is the right place to
go to say: Are we about to try to fi-
nance the bipolar—the extremisms on
both ends?
In many ways, this piece of legisla-
tion—at least this mechanic right
here—you have got to understand what
you are doing. You are going to wipe
out the middle.
This is, in many ways, the ‘‘no new
moderates’’ piece of legislation.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. SARBANES).
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
The gentleman is right. There are ex-
amples of these systems across the
country. Actually, Maryland has, now,
two jurisdictions that have embraced
public financing.
You are worried about the moderates
being wiped out. In fact, what is hap-
pening is the moderates are fleeing the
political town square because they feel
like their vote doesn’t matter and their
engagement doesn’t matter because
they support people who then go to
places where laws are made, and those
folks are getting taken hostage by the
big money and the special interests.
So the smart moderate voter out
there says: What is the point? I am
going to opt out of the political sys-
tem.
And when they vacate the political
town square, then the extremes run in
and they fill the vacuum.
So, actually, if you want to bring
moderates back in, if you want to bring
citizens across the political spectrum
back into our system, create some-
thing that makes them feel empow-
ered. That is what this small donor
matching system is all about. Then
you will get these people who have run
up into the hills and have said: My de-
mocracy doesn’t respect me anymore.
By the way, these are the ballasts in
the ship of state, those kind of folks,
engaged citizens who feel like the de-
mocracy should work for them. But the
evidence they get every day is that the
big money is running the show: Why
don’t I just save myself, you know, my
dignity, by stepping back, because why
am I going to pretend that my voice
actually matters, that my involvement
matters?
We create a system that makes them
feel like they have power again, and
they will come out of the hills. They
will come back down into the political
town square. They will help create that
moderation that you are talking about,
because they are solid citizens who
care about their democracy.
So this is a very important amend-
ment because it will give us a retro-
spective on how the system is working.
We can collect that data, and then that
will inform any improvements we want
to make going forward.
Mr. Chair, I congratulate the gentle-
woman on her amendment, and I sup-
port it.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chair, how
much time is remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Arizona has 21⁄2 minutes remain-
ing. The gentlewoman from Pennsyl-
vania has 2 minutes remaining.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I appre-
ciate the thoughtful queries from the
gentleman from Arizona, and that is
precisely what this amendment is di-
rected towards. It is an amendment to
H.R. 1 which sets up a small dollar fi-
nancing program, and this will allow us
to assess how it is working going for-
ward.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.085 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2488 March 6, 2019
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chair, I ac-
cept this as—and I don’t mean this in a
mean fashion, but I accept this as one
of the tenets of faith on the Demo-
cratic side.
The gentleman from Maryland—won-
derfully articulate—that isn’t what
happened. I mean, you have 25 years in
other States and other communities,
particularly in legislative bodies. I
thought the same thing.
But the fact of the matter is, what
you do in this fashion is the person who
is part of a certain leftist group, right
group: I just need these folks to write
me enough checks so that I get enough
matching, or a good direct mail vendor
who hits the ideological extreme so I
get those dollars.
Those aren’t the facts. And on occa-
sion, we have to take a step back and
take a look at sort of the incubators of
democracy and experience, which is our
State legislatures, and understand the
reality of what has happened.
I am a conservative. It worked out
fine for my view of the world, but un-
derstand—at least in my State legisla-
ture—within 4 years, this type of plan
completely changed the character of
the population that was representing
the people in Arizona.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I would
just close by saying, once again, the in-
tent of this is to study and make sure
we have the best possible system going
forward.
I know that Representative SAR-
BANES and others have studied the ex-
isting mechanisms out there to try and
implement this kind of small donor
matching system. I am sorry it didn’t
work out in Arizona, but I think we
have a great plan here going forward.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Chair, wishes
and hopes and optimism are not public
policy. Be careful what you are asking
for here. There are real-life examples
across our country with what this did
to our democracy. Understand the
damage you are about to do.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
SCANLON).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MR. MORELLE
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 8 printed in
part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 24, line 24, strike ‘‘30 days’’ and insert
‘‘28 days’’.
Page 72, insert after line 2 the following:
SEC. 1052. ENSURING PRE-ELECTION REGISTRA-
TION DEADLINES ARE CONSISTENT
WITH TIMING OF LEGAL PUBLIC
HOLIDAYS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 8(a)(1) of the Na-
tional Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52
U.S.C. 20507(a)(1)) is amended by striking ‘‘30
days’’ each place it appears and inserting ‘‘28
days’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to elections held in 2020 or any suc-
ceeding year.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. MORELLE) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Chair, I rise
today to offer an amendment intended
to make it easier to register to vote by
ensuring the deadline does not fall on a
public holiday.
Millions of registration applications
are handled through the mail and
through local Departments of Motor
Vehicles. Current Federal law requires
States to accept registration forms
postmarked or submitted 30 days be-
fore election.
However, Mr. Chair, it just so hap-
pens, in some years, 30 days before
election day falls exactly on Columbus
Day, Indigenous Peoples’ Day, or an-
other public holiday. This results in a
shorter window for preelection reg-
istration, and many Americans may
not even realize the holiday could dis-
rupt their plans to register. Without
Postal Service or DMV hours on the
holidays, some voters have been unable
to get their registrations in on time.
My amendment makes a simple
change. The deadline to postmark your
ballots, register online or visit a gov-
ernment office to submit your registra-
tion will be changed from 30 days to 28
days prior to election day.
This provides voters simply more
time to submit their registration with-
out burdening local election officials
with rapid turnaround time and en-
sures that the deadline never falls on a
holiday.
Every day leading up to election day
is an opportunity for thousands of
Americans across the country to up-
date their registration or register for
the first time. By ensuring the cutoff
for advanced registration is only 28
days before an election and ensuring
that date doesn’t fall on a public holi-
day, we can give more Americans the
chance to prepare to cast their ballots.
Now, H.R. 1 already allows for same-
day voter registration in every State—
a policy I strongly support—as it will
make it easier for every citizen to ex-
ercise their franchise. But H.R. 1 still
provides for voters the option to reg-
ister in advance if they so choose; and
when they choose that option, this
amendment will give them enough
time to do so, making certain that
their paperwork is not rejected for
being postmarked or submitted on a
public holiday.
This is a simple change, but it is one
that can make voting a little easier for
Americans across the Nation, and I
hope we can all agree that is a change
worth making.
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues to
support this amendment, and I thank
the ranking member for his extraor-
dinary work, as well as the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. SARBANES), the
sponsor of the bill.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. MORELLE).
The amendment was agreed to.
b 1815
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MS. SHALALA
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. CART-
WRIGHT). It is now in order to consider
amendment No. 9 printed in part B of
House Report 116–16.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
In section 8022 of title VIII, insert after
subsection (c) the following (and redesignate
subsection (d) as subsection (e)):
(d) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
45 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Director of the Office of Govern-
ment Ethics shall submit a report to Con-
gress on the impact of the application of sub-
section (b), including the name of any indi-
vidual who received a waiver or authoriza-
tion described in subsection (a) and who, by
operation of subsection (b), submitted the in-
formation required by such subsection.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentlewoman
from Florida (Ms. SHALALA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Florida.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Chairman, last
year, we learned that of the 59 EPA
hires, roughly a third worked as reg-
istered lobbyists or lawyers for fossil
fuel producers, chemical manufactur-
ers, or other corporate clients. Several
of these EPA hires have gotten waiv-
ers, allowing them to participate in ac-
tions involving their former clients.
This directly impacts my district.
In my district, climate change and
sea level rise aren’t debated. These are
not partisan issues because, for Miami,
climate change is life or death. There
are no climate deniers in south Flor-
ida. This is a real-life example of why
these ethics waivers matter, and they
matter to my constituents.
I am very pleased that H.R. 1 man-
dates that the executive branch
promptly disclose waivers of executive
branch ethics rules to the Office of
Government Ethics.
My amendment will maximize trans-
parency by highlighting who is now
captured by the upgraded ethics waiver
regime. We need to know who is now
getting these waivers, why they are
getting it, and what are the implica-
tions. We need to know the impact so
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.088 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2489
March 6, 2019
that we can simply uphold our con-
stitutional duty as Members of Con-
gress and hold this administration ac-
countable and hold future administra-
tions accountable.
Whether it impacts climate change
policy, foreign policy, health policy, or
any other issue, the American people
deserve to know who is working behind
closed doors in their government.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chair, H.R. 1 as
currently drafted requires the Office of
Government Ethics to make ethics
waivers issued to executive branch em-
ployees publicly available. The bill
goes even further to mandate ethics
waivers issued prior to the enactment
of this legislation must also be made
publicly available.
This amendment requires OGE to
submit a report to Congress within 45
days of enactment regarding the impli-
cations of the retroactive applications
of the ethics waiver process.
H.R. 1 already gives the Office of
Government Ethics vast new authori-
ties and vast new responsibilities. This
amendment would just place an addi-
tional burden on OGE, and I would
urge, Mr. Chairman, that all Members
oppose the amendment from the gen-
tlewoman from Florida.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Chair, I do not
believe that this is an undue burden on
the Office of Government Ethics. It is
simply a request for us to apply the
new waiver to see what the expla-
nations are for the number of ethics
waivers that have already been given.
It is simply a transparency issue, and
it is perfectly appropriate for Congress
to request this information.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Florida (Ms. SHALALA).
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair under-
stands that amendment No. 10 will not
be offered.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MR. BIGGS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 11 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 75, after line 25, insert the following:
PART 8—VOTER REGISTRATION
EFFICIENCY ACT
SEC. 1081. SHORT TITLE.
This part may be cited as the ‘‘Voter Reg-
istration Efficiency Act’’.
SEC. 1082. REQUIRING APPLICANTS FOR MOTOR
VEHICLE DRIVER’S LICENSES IN
NEW STATE TO INDICATE WHETHER
STATE SERVES AS RESIDENCE FOR
VOTER REGISTRATION PURPOSES.
(a) REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS FOR LI-
CENSES.—Section 5(d) of the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20504(d)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Any change’’ and inserting
‘‘(1) Any change’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2)(A) A State motor vehicle authority
shall require each individual applying for a
motor vehicle driver’s license in the State—
‘‘(i) to indicate whether the individual re-
sides in another State or resided in another
State prior to applying for the license, and,
if so, to identify the State involved; and
‘‘(ii) to indicate whether the individual in-
tends for the State to serve as the individ-
ual’s residence for purposes of registering to
vote in elections for Federal office.
‘‘(B) If pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii) an
individual indicates to the State motor vehi-
cle authority that the individual intends for
the State to serve as the individual’s resi-
dence for purposes of registering to vote in
elections for Federal office, the authority
shall notify the motor vehicle authority of
the State identified by the individual pursu-
ant to subparagraph (A)(i), who shall notify
the chief State election official of such State
that the individual no longer intends for
that State to serve as the individual’s resi-
dence for purposes of registering to vote in
elections for Federal office.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect with
respect to elections occurring in 2019 or any
succeeding year.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Chairman, since the
United States has a very mobile popu-
lation—roughly 40 million Americans,
or 14 percent of the United States pop-
ulation, move each year—voters rarely
inform elected officials when they
move, and voters can often be on the
voter rolls in two or even more dif-
ferent States at one time. Unless
States have an efficient way of commu-
nicating with one another, it is pos-
sible that they may not be able to iden-
tify an individual who is on the rolls in
two different States.
This bill, H.R. 1, makes it more dif-
ficult for States to use systems pro-
vided for under the National Voter
Registration Act and under HAVA.
Under current law, States can send out
cards and go through a process, which
was upheld by the Supreme Court of
the United States in Ohio in 2018.
What my amendment does, simply, is
require that new State residents apply-
ing for a driver’s license notify the
State if they intend to use their new
residency for the purpose of voting; and
if so, the amendment would mandate
that the new State notify the appli-
cant’s previous State of residence so its
chief election official can update voter
lists accordingly.
The amendment protects voters who
are only making temporary moves to
another State, while enabling States to
more efficiently manage the voter reg-
istration file for the vast majority of
applicants who are making a perma-
nent move to a new State.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I ask
unanimous consent to claim the time
in opposition, although I do not oppose
the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentlewoman
from California?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from California is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, this
amendment would require applicants
for motor vehicle licenses to indicate
whether they previously resided in a
different State and which State the ap-
plicant intends to be their residence for
the purpose of voter registration. I
think it could be helpful in terms of
preventing registrations in two States.
However, it is potentially redundant
with other provisions in H.R. 1.
When all States implement auto-
matic voter registration, States will
transmit change of address duplicate
license information electronically and
wouldn’t need to collect this informa-
tion from individuals.
Further, States are able to use a reli-
able set of data for sharing information
on registered voters, called the Elec-
tronic Registration Information Cen-
ter, established originally by the Pew
Charitable Trusts, currently utilized
by 26 States—by the way, including Ar-
izona—so it has a very high accuracy
rate.
Nevertheless, redundancy is our
friend, and I certainly do not oppose
this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentlewoman, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS).
The amendment was agreed to.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I move
that the Committee do now rise.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the motion that the Committee rise.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I withdraw
my motion for the Committee to rise.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the motion is withdrawn.
There was no objection.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MR. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 12 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Mr.
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
After subtitle G of title VIII, insert the fol-
lowing (and redesignate subtitle H as sub-
title I):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.093 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2490 March 6, 2019
Subtitle H—Travel on Private Aircraft by
Senior Political Appointees
SECTION 8081. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Stop
Waste And Misuse by Presidential Flyers
Landing Yet Evading Rules and Standards’’
or the ‘‘SWAMP FLYERS’’.
SEC. 8082. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR
TRAVEL ON PRIVATE AIRCRAFT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the date of
enactment of this subtitle, no Federal funds
appropriated or otherwise made available in
any fiscal year may be used to pay the travel
expenses of any senior political appointee for
travel on official business on a non-commer-
cial, private, or chartered flight.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitation in sub-
section (a) shall not apply—
(1) if no commercial flight was available
for the travel in question, consistent with
subsection (c); or
(2) to any travel on aircraft owned or
leased by the Government.
(c) CERTIFICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any senior political ap-
pointee who travels on a non-commercial,
private, or chartered flight under the excep-
tion provided in subsection (b)(1) shall, not
later than 30 days after the date of such trav-
el, submit a written statement to Congress
certifying that no commercial flight was
available.
(2) PENALTY.—Any statement submitted
under paragraph (1) shall be considered a
statement for purposes of applying section
1001 of title 18, United States Code.
(d) DEFINITION OF SENIOR POLITICAL AP-
POINTEE.—In this subtitle, the term ‘‘senior
political appointee’’ means any individual
occupying—
(1) a position listed under the Executive
Schedule (subchapter II of chapter 53 of title
5, United States Code);
(2) a Senior Executive Service position
that is not a career appointee as defined
under section 3132(a)(4) of such title; or
(3) a position of a confidential or policy-de-
termining character under schedule C of sub-
part C of part 213 of title 5, Code of Federal
Regulations.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from California (Mr. TED LIEU) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
b 1830
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Mr.
Chairman, let me first start off by
commending Representative JOHN SAR-
BANES for H.R. 1 and everyone who has
worked on behalf of this historic bill.
Today I rise in support of amendment
12 to H.R. 1. Last term, I introduced
what is known as the SWAMP FLYERS
Act to make sure that government offi-
cials don’t abuse taxpayer funds for
their luxury travel preferences. We did
not get a vote on this bill last term. I
am very pleased that now I am going to
be able to offer it as an amendment to
H.R. 1
This is a commonsense amendment.
It would simply prevent government
officials from using taxpayer funds to
travel on a private, chartered, or non-
commercial flight. If your official busi-
ness needs you to go on one of those
really expensive flights, you might
want to think twice about why you are
doing it.
Eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse
has long been a bipartisan mission of
the U.S. Congress, and I can think of
few more obvious candidates than pay-
ing for private jets for Cabinet officials
to travel across the country. As every
Member of Congress knows, you can
reach any district of the U.S. just fly-
ing commercial.
I think it is disturbing I even have to
introduce this amendment, but let me
just walk folks through some of the
corruption we have seen in the last 2
years.
Former HHS Secretary Tom Price
spent more than $400,000 in travel on
private jets.
Former Interior Secretary Ryan
Zinke spent over $39,000 of taxpayer
funds on a helicopter tour of national
monuments in Nevada. He then spent
an additional $12,000 of taxpayer funds
on a private jet to go to Las Vegas, Ne-
vada, to speak to a hockey team owned
by a major donor.
Former Veterans Affairs Secretary
David Shulkin spent over $122,000 in
taxpayer funds to go with his wife to
Europe for the primary purpose of
sightseeing.
Then we have got former EPA Ad-
ministrator Scott Pruitt, who spent at
least $58,000 on chartered flights.
I could go on.
If this had been law, they would not
have been able to do this. Hardworking
Americans deserve better. A vote
against this amendment is really some-
thing that taxpayers would not appre-
ciate.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this commonsense
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, this is
duplicative of current rules. Political
appointees are government employees
who are held to specific travel and eth-
ics standards already. Restrictions are
there and have been there, but the
Democrats seem to want more bureau-
crats involved in the review.
Political appointees follow these fun-
damentals, among others, related to
Federal travel: travel must be con-
ducted in the most efficient and effec-
tive manner and only when necessary
to accomplish the purposes of the gov-
ernment, and employees traveling on
official business are expected to exer-
cise the same care when incurring ex-
penses as a prudent person would on
personal business.
Current Federal travel guidelines for
political appointees already limit trav-
el flight expenses to common carrier
commercial fares. The only time pri-
vate company aircraft can be accepted
is if no other travel arrangements are
practically available or when they are
offered to your spouse, but explicitly
not because of the political appointee’s
position. Either way, all of this would
be required to be run through the
White House Counsel’s office.
Mr. Chairman, I urge that we oppose
the amendment, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Mr.
Chairman, I want to note that a num-
ber of these Cabinet officials defended
the use of luxury travel preferences by
saying that their travel was approved.
So, clearly, there is not enough in
the law to stop this abusive behavior of
taxpayer funds. Again, if you just look
at the abuse of travel, we know we can
stop it. There is no justification for it.
Mr. Chairman, I request that my col-
leagues vote for this amendment, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. In clos-
ing, this is a commonsense amend-
ment. I appreciate, again, the historic
nature of H.R. 1. Preventing travel
abuse by Cabinet officials is something
that we can all support on a bipartisan
basis.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. TED LIEU).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 13 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 13 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Insert after section 8005 the following:
SEC. 8006. GUIDANCE ON UNPAID EMPLOYEES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director of the Office of Government Ethics
shall issue guidance on ethical standards ap-
plicable to unpaid employees of an agency.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘agency’’ includes the Execu-
tive Office of the President and the White
House; and
(2) the term ‘‘unpaid employee’’ includes
any individual occupying a position at an
agency and who is unpaid by operation of
section 3110 of title 5, United States Code, or
any other provision of law, but does not in-
clude any employee who is unpaid due to a
lapse in appropriations.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, I come
to the floor today to speak on this
amendment that simply requires un-
paid government employees to comply
with the same ethics rules as paid em-
ployees.
President Trump has exploited this
ethics loophole for his daughter Ivanka
Trump and his son-in-law, Jared
Kushner, who both work in the White
House.
Requiring your daughter and your
son-in-law to be subject to the same
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.029 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2491
March 6, 2019
ethics rules as everyone else is simply
basic common sense. It is not a Demo-
cratic issue or a Republican issue, but
it is core to our democracy and our na-
tional security.
The purpose of ethics rules, Mr.
Chairman, is to ensure that conflicts of
interest do not interfere in the oper-
ations of our government. This is crit-
ical so that the American people trust
that the people guiding our country’s
laws and policies are acting with the
best interests of our country and the
American people at heart and not for-
eign or business interests. But Presi-
dent Trump’s hiring of his daughter
Ivanka Trump, and son-in-law, Jared
Kushner, as unpaid advisers has raised
serious concerns.
Shortly after the 2016 elections,
Ivanka Trump participated in her dad’s
meeting with the Japanese Prime Min-
ister as her namesake clothing brand,
Ivanka Trump Marks LLC, was simul-
taneously negotiating a licensing deal
with Sanei International, a company
whose largest shareholder is the Japa-
nese Government.
In addition, her company received
preliminary approvals for 16 new trade-
marks from China during the Presi-
dent’s trade war with China. In one
case, Ivanka Trump and Chinese Presi-
dent Xi dined together at Mar-a-Lago
the same day that China approved the
three trademarks for the First Daugh-
ter.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, as the
gentlewoman said, this amendment
would require the Office of Government
Ethics to promulgate rules to apply
ethics laws to unpaid employees of the
Executive Office and President of the
White House. As she also mentioned,
this is clearly to go after Jared
Kushner and Ivanka Trump. It seems
to me that this is not the kind of thing
that we should be focused on.
Miss Trump has been appointed as an
executive branch employee and is now
covered by the ethics laws and regula-
tions that apply to all executive
branch employees. It seems to me this
is congressional overreach and redun-
dant of current ethics rules and prac-
tices of other folks who have worked in
the executive branch.
As I said, I oppose the amendment,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the incredible gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. SARBANES), who
has been leading this effort.
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding. I
thank her for this amendment which
is, as she says, a very commonsense
amendment. I don’t really understand
what the objection would be.
If you don’t apply the same ethical
standards to unpaid staff or people who
are working in the executive branch as
you do to paid, what you are left with
is a gigantic loophole that could be
taken advantage of, and I don’t think
that the average person out there could
understand why you would make that
kind of distinction. So this is a very
logical thing to do. Just because you
are not paid doesn’t mean you might
not have a conflict of interest.
So this is an amendment that simply
directs the Office of Government Eth-
ics to come up with some rules to make
sure that senior administration offi-
cials, special governmental employees
who draw no salary, are still going to
abide by the ethics laws.
Again, if the job here of all of us is to
meet the expectations of the public in
terms of how things should function up
here in Washington, abiding ethical
standards and observing conflicts of in-
terest rules, then this meets that ex-
pectation directly. I think it is a good
amendment.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, once again, I just reit-
erate that what we are saying is wheth-
er you are paid or unpaid, you have to
go through the same security clear-
ances; and whether you are paid or un-
paid, you have to deal with the same
ethics regulations. Particularly when
unpaid employees are put into serious
positions where national security
clearances are required and where they
have access to top secret information,
we need to make sure that those ethics
rules apply to everybody.
Now, frankly, we didn’t see this as a
loophole in the past because it hasn’t
been exploited in the same way, but,
unfortunately, that is what is hap-
pening now.
Mr. Chairman, I think that this
should raise serious concerns for any-
body. We need to make sure that the
people who are in our government are
facing the same transparent ethics
rules whether you are a relative of the
person in the Oval Office or not.
We have ethics laws for a reason. The
United States is not a despotic country
built on nepotism, and we need to
make sure that it is in everyone’s best
interest when all of these employees
are subject to ethics laws, including
laws that prohibit employees from par-
ticipating in matters in which they
have a financial interest or from mis-
using their official positions.
Mr. Chairman, I strongly urge my
colleagues to support this amendment,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 14 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 14 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 537, insert after line 10 the following:
SEC. 7202. PROHIBITING RECEIPT OF COMPENSA-
TION FOR LOBBYING ACTIVITIES ON
BEHALF OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES
VIOLATING HUMAN RIGHTS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—The Lobbying Disclosure
Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) is amended
by inserting after section 5 the following new
section:
‘‘SEC. 5A. PROHIBITING RECEIPT OF COMPENSA-
TION FOR LOBBYING ACTIVITIES ON
BEHALF OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES
VIOLATING HUMAN RIGHTS.
‘‘(a) PROHIBITION.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Act, no person may
accept financial or other compensation for
lobbying activity under this Act on behalf of
a client who is a government which the
President has determined is a government
that engages in gross violations of human
rights.
‘‘(b) CLARIFICATION OF TREATMENT OF DIP-
LOMATIC OR CONSULAR OFFICERS.—Nothing in
this section may be construed to affect any
activity of a duly accredited diplomatic or
consular officer of a foreign government who
is so recognized by the Department of State,
while said officer is engaged in activities
which are recognized by the Department of
State as being within the scope of the func-
tions of such officer.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to lobbying activity under the Lobbying Dis-
closure Act of 1995 which occurs pursuant to
contracts entered into on or after the date of
the enactment of this Act.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, this
amendment would stop lobbyists from
working on behalf of foreign govern-
ments with gross human rights viola-
tions.
Countries with human rights abuses
should use the diplomatic process to
express their views and not try to in-
fluence the American Government
when hiding behind highly paid K
Street lobbyists.
H.R. 1, the For the People Act, is a
historic bill that aims to restore the
promise of our Nation’s democracy and
the culture of corruption in Wash-
ington, reduce the role of money in pol-
itics, and return power back to the
American people. My amendment fur-
thers this goal by limiting the role of
dark money in our foreign policy.
Take, for instance, Mr. Chairman,
Saudi Arabia. After 9/11, Saudi Arabia
was implicated in the most destructive
attack on American soil in our history.
Yet 15 years later, the country was the
leading recipient of U.S. arms sales.
For nearly 4 years, Saudi Arabia has
perpetrated the worst humanitarian
catastrophe in Yemen, with U.S. mili-
tary participation in its bombings and
complicity in a blockade that has de-
prived millions of food and medicine.
Despite the Saudis’ indiscriminate kill-
ing of civilians, Secretary of State
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.100 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2492 March 6, 2019
Mike Pompeo has certified that the
country has been protecting civilians
just last year.
Most recently, Saudi Arabia mur-
dered U.S.-based journalist Jamal
Khashoggi while President Trump re-
jected the evidence from his own intel-
ligence agencies that Saudi Arabia’s
crown prince ordered the murder.
How does Saudi Arabia maintain its
relationship with the United States? It
shouldn’t surprise anyone that Saudi
Arabia spent about $27 million on U.S.
lobbying and public relations in 2017
alone.
Individuals affiliated with the Trump
administration like Paul Manafort and
Michael Flynn have also taken sub-
stantial sums of money from foreign
countries to lobby the American Gov-
ernment.
Paul Manafort lobbied on behalf of
pro-Russian forces in Ukraine in 2005,
and prosecutors allege that Mr.
Manafort was working on Ukrainian
politics well into 2018, even after Spe-
cial Counsel Mueller indicted him. He
didn’t even report the payments he was
receiving for his lobbying efforts, in
flagrant violation of current law.
Though not charged with lobbying il-
legally, Manafort has still had a long
history of lobbying on behalf of the
world’s most brutal dictators, includ-
ing Mobutu Sese Seko, Ferdinand
Marcos, and Jonas Savimbi. He is ru-
mored to have accepted a briefcase
from a Marcos affiliate with $10 million
in cash to give to the Reagan cam-
paign.
Finally, Michael Flynn, President
Trump’s former National Security Ad-
visor, worked on a $15 million plan to
kidnap a political enemy of Turkish
President Erdogan and fly him to an is-
land prison. Mr. Flynn was paid at
least $530,000 for lobbying on behalf of
the Turkish Government between Au-
gust and November of 2016. Mr. Chair-
man, he did not retroactively register
as a foreign agent with the Justice De-
partment until March 7, 2017.
b 1845
This is a commonsense amendment
that brings transparency and ensures
that we protect our system from this
type of lobbying from those countries
that have gross human rights viola-
tions.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chair, I rise in op-
position to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chair, another bad
amendment to a bad bill. This amend-
ment suffers from the same defects as
the underlying bill. It continues the
same regrettable trend by our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle of
trying to silence speakers they don’t
like.
Portions of this bill are so radical
that, as we have said several times al-
ready, even the ACLU came out today
and asked Members of this body not to
vote for it. The ACLU said H.R. 1 would
unconstitutionally burden free speech
and associational rights. This amend-
ment is more of the same tactics that
caused the ACLU to oppose the under-
lying legislation.
As I said, a bad amendment to a bad
bill. Put that all together, it makes ev-
erything worse.
The Lobbying Disclosure Act, which
this amendment would seek to change,
is about disclosure and increasing pub-
lic awareness, not preventing people
from undertaking a lawful profession.
The decision of whether to undertake
representation of a client is a personal
and professional matter, not one for
central government planning.
What my friends on the other side of
the aisle seem not to understand is the
answer to speech that they view as un-
desirable is more speech. It is called
the First Amendment. It is called de-
bate. The Federal Government should
not and cannot constitutionally pre-
vent the people it does not like from
speaking.
And we know it has tried. Just a few
years ago, it did it. And I will continue
to bring this up as long as the good
folks in the Fourth District will have
me in Congress.
A few years ago, the IRS systemati-
cally, for a sustained period of time,
went after people for their political be-
liefs—it happened; they did it—for the
most fundamental liberty we have, our
right to speak.
Think about the First Amendment,
freedom to practice your faith the way
you want, freedom to assemble, free-
dom to petition your government, free-
dom of the press. All those are criti-
cally important.
But your right to speak is funda-
mental, and your right to speak in a
political fashion is what the Founders
had most in mind when they talked
about your free speech, First Amend-
ment rights.
This amendment goes to restrict it
just like the bill does, and that is why
the ACLU is against it. That is why I
am against it.
This is a bad idea to a bad piece of
legislation. I mean, think about what
is going on, on college campuses today:
safe spaces, free speech zones, bias re-
sponse teams. If you say something po-
litically incorrect today on a college
campus, you get harassed.
In the last Congress, I asked a ques-
tion in committee to a professor from
one of these universities that are tax-
payer subsidized. I said: Can a free
speech zone and a safe space on a col-
lege campus be at the same location?
He kind of chuckled. That is sort of
the joke, because where is the free
speech zone supposed to be in this
country? Everywhere. It is called the
First Amendment.
I asked this one professor: Professor,
in a safe space on a college campus,
could I say this sentence: ‘‘Donald
Trump is President’’?
Think about this. Think about this.
The professor began his response with
this: Well, Congressman, it depends.
I interrupted him, which I will do
sometimes if I think the witness is say-
ing something stupid.
I said: It is a fact. There is no ‘‘it de-
pends’’ about it. He got elected on No-
vember 8, 2016. He is President of the
United States. He lives at 1600 Pennsyl-
vania Avenue. It is a fact.
The idea that on some college cam-
puses you can’t say that because you
are in some safe space is crazy. This is
the absurd level that some on the left
want to take us to when we are talking
about the First Amendment.
Thank goodness—thank goodness—
the ACLU sees it for what it is and says
vote ‘‘no’’ on this bill.
Heck, yes, I am opposed to this
amendment, just like I am opposed to
the underlying legislation.
Mr. Chair, I would urge a ‘‘no’’ vote,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chair, I hope my
colleagues on the other side who are
just quoting the ACLU tonight are
with us on everything else that the
ACLU supports. I look forward to see-
ing that.
I got a little distracted in the last
speech, so I wanted to remind people
what we are talking about in this
amendment, which is that we would
not allow lobbyists that are working
on behalf of foreign governments with
gross human rights violations to actu-
ally pay a bunch of lobbyists and hide
behind highly paid K Street lobbyists
to get their agenda.
They should just use the diplomatic
process. It is not like they are not
going to have a voice. They can use
their diplomatic process.
That is all this amendment is. It is a
smart amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 15 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 15 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Insert after section 8014 the following:
SEC. 8015. LEGAL DEFENSE FUNDS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘Director’’ means the Director
of the Office of Government Ethics;
(2) the term ‘‘legal defense fund’’ means a
trust—
(A) that has only one beneficiary;
(B) that is subject to a trust agreement
creating an enforceable fiduciary duty on the
part of the trustee to the beneficiary, pursu-
ant to the applicable law of the jurisdiction
in which the trust is established;
(C) that is subject to a trust agreement
that provides for the mandatory public dis-
closure of all donations and disbursements;
(D) that is subject to a trust agreement
that prohibits the use of its resources for any
purpose other than—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.102 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2493
March 6, 2019
(i) the administration of the trust;
(ii) the payment or reimbursement of legal
fees or expenses incurred in investigative,
civil, criminal, or other legal proceedings re-
lating to or arising by virtue of service by
the trust’s beneficiary as an officer or em-
ployee, as defined in this section, or as an
employee, contractor, consultant or volun-
teer of the campaign of the President or Vice
President; or
(iii) the distribution of unused resources to
a charity selected by the trustee that has
not been selected or recommended by the
beneficiary of the trust;
(E) that is subject to a trust agreement
that prohibits the use of its resources for any
other purpose or personal legal matters, in-
cluding tax planning, personal injury litiga-
tion, protection of property rights, divorces,
or estate probate; and
(F) that is subject to a trust agreement
that prohibits the acceptance of donations,
except in accordance with this section and
the regulations of the Office of Government
Ethics;
(3) the term ‘‘lobbying activity’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 3 of the
Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C.
1602);
(4) the term ‘‘officer or employee’’ means—
(A) an officer (as that term is defined in
section 2104 of title 5, United States Code) or
employee (as that term is defined in section
2105 of such title) of the executive branch of
the Government;
(B) the Vice President; and
(C) the President; and
(5) the term ‘‘relative’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 3110 of title 5,
United States Code.
(b) LEGAL DEFENSE FUNDS.—An officer or
employee may not accept or use any gift or
donation for the payment or reimbursement
of legal fees or expenses incurred in inves-
tigative, civil, criminal, or other legal pro-
ceedings relating to or arising by virtue of
the officer or employee’s service as an officer
or employee, as defined in this section, or as
an employee, contractor, consultant or vol-
unteer of the campaign of the President or
Vice President except through a legal de-
fense fund that is certified by the Director of
the Office of Government Ethics.
(c) LIMITS ON GIFTS AND DONATIONS.—Not
later than 120 days after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Director shall pro-
mulgate regulations establishing limits with
respect to gifts and donations described in
subsection (b), which shall, at a minimum—
(1) prohibit the receipt of any gift or dona-
tion described in subsection (b)—
(A) from a single contributor (other than a
relative of the officer or employee) in a total
amount of more than $5,000 during any cal-
endar year;
(B) from a registered lobbyist;
(C) from a foreign government or an agent
of a foreign principal;
(D) from a State government or an agent of
a State government;
(E) from any person seeking official action
from, or seeking to do or doing business
with, the agency employing the officer or
employee;
(F) from any person conducting activities
regulated by the agency employing the offi-
cer or employee;
(G) from any person whose interests may
be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of
the officer or employee;
(H) from an officer or employee of the ex-
ecutive branch;
(I) from any organization a majority of
whose members are described in (A)–(H); or
(J) require that a legal defense fund, in
order to be certified by the Director only
permit distributions to the officer or em-
ployee.
(d) WRITTEN NOTICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An officer or employee
who wishes to accept funds or have a rep-
resentative accept funds from a legal defense
fund shall first ensure that the proposed
trustee of the legal defense fund submits to
the Director the following information:
(A) The name and contact information for
any proposed trustee of the legal defense
fund.
(B) A copy of any proposed trust document
for the legal defense fund.
(C) The nature of the legal proceeding (or
proceedings), investigation or other matter
which give rise to the establishment of the
legal defense fund.
(D) An acknowledgment signed by the offi-
cer or employee and the trustee indicating
that they will be bound by the regulations
and limitation under this section.
(2) APPROVAL.—An officer or employee may
not accept any gift or donation to pay, or to
reimburse any person for, fees or expenses
described in subsection (b) of this section ex-
cept through a legal defense fund that has
been certified in writing by the Director fol-
lowing that office’s receipt and approval of
the information submitted under paragraph
(1) and approval of the structure of the fund.
(e) REPORTING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An officer or employee
who establishes a legal defense fund may not
directly or indirectly accept distributions
from a legal defense fund unless the fund has
provided the Director a quarterly report for
each quarter of every calendar year since the
establishment of the legal defense fund that
discloses, with respect to the quarter covered
by the report—
(A) the source and amount of each con-
tribution to the legal defense fund; and
(B) the amount, recipient, and purpose of
each expenditure from the legal defense
fund, including all distributions from the
trust for any purpose.
(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Director
shall make publicly available online—
(A) each report submitted under paragraph
(1) in a searchable, sortable, and
downloadable form;
(B) each trust agreement and any amend-
ment thereto;
(C) the written notice and acknowledgment
required by subsection (d); and
(C) the Director’s written certification of
the legal defense fund.
(f) RECUSAL.—An officer or employee, other
than the President and the Vice President,
who is the beneficiary of a legal defense fund
may not participate personally and substan-
tially in any particular matter in which the
officer or employee knows a donor of any
source of a gift or donation to the legal de-
fense fund established for the officer or em-
ployee has a financial interest, for a period
of two years from the date of the most re-
cent gift or donation to the legal defense
fund.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chair, this
amendment cleans up the so-called
legal defense funds.
Many Americans don’t know this, but
it is perfectly legal for government em-
ployees to set up a fund to help them
pay their legal bills when they are in
trouble with the law. Amazingly, they
can pack this slush fund with unlim-
ited donations from wealthy individ-
uals and large corporations.
In other words, employees in the
White House can fund their legal de-
fenses with contributions from the
President’s campaign backers or people
who want to influence the President’s
decisions.
Not surprisingly, this President’s
team has set up a legal defense fund,
the Patriot Fund, to help staffers pay
for their legal fees related to the Rus-
sia investigation. The Patriot Fund
was cleared by the Office of Govern-
ment Ethics under the Acting Director,
David Apol, who was appointed by—
you guessed it—President Trump.
Former Trump campaign staffer Rick
Gates and former National Security
Advisor Michael Flynn have also set up
legal defense funds.
According to a political report from a
month ago, Sheldon Adelson, who is
the single largest donor to the Trump
campaign, and his wife, Miriam, have
each contributed $250,000 to the Patriot
Fund, for a total of half a million dol-
lars.
The fund is flush, Mr. Chair. It is no
wonder that one of Trump’s former
campaign staffers who has been inter-
viewed by the House Intelligence Com-
mittee referred to the Patriot Fund as
‘‘a real blessing.’’
Trump lawyers have said that deci-
sions about which staffers’ legal funds
are paid out of the Patriot Fund will
not be related to whether the indi-
vidual in question defends the Presi-
dent. But since the fund manager has
sole discretion over who will benefit
from the fund, it is almost impossible
to know whether access to Patriot
Fund dollars will be used to reward
those who might be loyal to the Presi-
dent. That creates an extraordinary
conflict of interest for any President,
not just this one.
It is time to put a stop to this in per-
petuity. That is why I have offered this
amendment to direct the Office of Gov-
ernment Ethics to promulgate regula-
tions on basic requirements to ensure
transparency of donations to legal de-
fense funds in the executive branch and
to ensure that Federal employees can-
not obtain money from prohibited
sources. These regulations will be simi-
lar to rules that are already estab-
lished for Members of Congress, and I
think that that is just common sense.
My amendment closes loopholes and
eliminates conflicts of interest in these
legal defense funds in several ways.
First, it limits the gifts and dona-
tions that can be made to legal defense
funds to no more than $5,000 per person
per year.
Second, it prohibits registered lobby-
ists, foreign governments, and individ-
uals involved in activities that are reg-
ulated by the agency that is employing
the individual who will receive the
legal defense fund dollars from contrib-
uting to their legal defense fund.
Third, it clarifies that employees
may not accept gifts and donations
outside of legal defense funds to pay for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00121 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.031 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2494 March 6, 2019
legal fees and expenses from civil or
criminal proceedings.
And, fourth, it makes legal defense
funds public by requiring that the
source of contributions and the amount
of those contributions be publicly dis-
closed.
Mr. Chair, this is a sensible amend-
ment, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chair, I oppose the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chair, the Office of
Government Ethics already consults
with legal defense funds when prompt-
ed. OGE already published two legal
advisories around legal defense funds
that define gifts according to current
U.S. Code and the ‘‘Standard of Ethical
Conduct for Employees of the Execu-
tive Branch.’’ Any legal defense fund
reviewed by OGE bars the trustee from
accepting donations from already pro-
hibited sources.
Mr. Chair, I urge that Members op-
pose this bad amendment to an already
terrible underlying piece of legislation,
and, respectfully, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chair, in conclu-
sion, I would say this bill, H.R. 1, is
about reclaiming our democracy, en-
suring transparency and accountability
for the American people. For evidence
of obstruction of justice, public corrup-
tion, and abuses of power for any Presi-
dent and the people surrounding him,
we believe that this bill is essential,
and this amendment is essential.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 16 OFFERED BY MR. CONNOLLY
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 16 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 265, insert after line 9 the following
(and conform the succeeding subsection ac-
cordingly):
‘‘(d) SURPLUS APPROPRIATIONS.—If the
amount of funds appropriated for grants au-
thorized under section 298D(a)(2) exceed the
amount necessary to meet the requirements
of subsection (b), the Commission shall con-
sider the following in making a determina-
tion to award remaining funds to a State:
‘‘(1) The record of the State in carrying out
the following with respect to the administra-
tion of elections for Federal office:
‘‘(A) Providing voting machines that are
less than 10 years old.
‘‘(B) Implementing strong chain of custody
procedures for the physical security of vot-
ing equipment and paper records at all
stages of the process.
‘‘(C) Conducting pre-election testing on
every voting machine and ensuring that
paper ballots are available wherever elec-
tronic machines are used.
‘‘(D) Maintaining offline backups of voter
registration lists.
‘‘(E) Providing a secure voter registration
database that logs requests submitted to the
database.
‘‘(F) Publishing and enforcing a policy de-
tailing use limitations and security safe-
guards to protect the personal information
of voters in the voter registration process.
‘‘(G) Providing secure processes and proce-
dures for reporting vote tallies.
‘‘(H) Providing a secure platform for dis-
seminating vote totals.
‘‘(2) Evidence of established conditions of
innovation and reform in providing voting
system security and the proposed plan of the
State for implementing additional condi-
tions.
‘‘(3) Evidence of collaboration between rel-
evant stakeholders, including local election
officials, in developing the grant implemen-
tation plan described in section 298B.
‘‘(4) The plan of the State to conduct a rig-
orous evaluation of the effectiveness of the
activities carried out with the grant.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. CONNOLLY) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Virginia.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Chair, H.R. 1,
the For the People Act of 2019, of which
I am a proud cosponsor, delivers on the
promise to reform American democ-
racy by protecting voting rights and
our elections, improving the trans-
parency of campaign finance, and pro-
moting ethics and accountability.
Key to safeguarding voting rights is
ensuring that our voting system is se-
cure and free from interference by for-
eign actors.
My amendment to H.R. 1 would help
States implement voting system secu-
rity improvements in order to enhance
the integrity of our Federal election
infrastructure.
Adapted from the FAST Voting Act,
H.R. 1512, which I recently reintro-
duced with my colleague, Representa-
tive JIM LANGEVIN of Rhode Island, this
amendment to H.R. 1 would award sup-
plementary grants to State applicants
based on evidence of previous election
security reforms and plans for imple-
menting additional innovations.
This race-to-the-top model would
incentivize States to adopt best prac-
tices, including providing voting ma-
chines that are less than 10 years old,
maintaining offline backups of voter
registration lists, and providing a se-
cure platform for disseminating vote
totals.
According to the Brennan Center for
Justice, in the 2016 Federal elections,
voters relied on outdated voting equip-
ment that was more than a decade old
in 43 of the 50 States, Mr. Chairman.
My amendment would also instruct
the Election Assistance Commission,
when evaluating State grant applica-
tions, to consider evidence of collabo-
ration between relevant stakeholders,
including local election officials, in de-
veloping the grant implementation
plan and the State’s plan to evaluate
the effectiveness of its grant activities.
We now know that Russia directly
targeted State voter databases and
software systems in 39 States during
the 2016 Federal elections. That effort
by Russia and additional foreign enti-
ties to conduct robust influence oper-
ations persisted, sadly, in the 2018 mid-
term elections, and the U.S. intel-
ligence community expects such at-
tacks to continue through the 2020 Fed-
eral elections.
Numerous witnesses before the
Homeland Security Committee testi-
fied on the ongoing need for invest-
ment to protect us from such attacks.
The need to strengthen the integrity of
our voting system is crystal clear, Mr.
Chairman. We have a moral obligation
as Members of Congress to protect the
sacred nature of the results of every
election, and it is urgent.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this simple but, I think, help-
ful amendment to move us toward
voter security in the next election and
enhance cybersecurity for all of our
Federal election infrastructure.
Mr. Chairman, I am delighted to see
there is no opposition here on the floor,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
b 1900
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CONNOLLY).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 17 OFFERED BY MS. FOXX OF
NORTH CAROLINA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 17 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as
follows:
Page 617, insert after line 2 the following
(and redesignate the succeeding subtitle ac-
cordingly):
Subtitle E—Reports on Outside Compensa-
tion Earned by Congressional Employees
SEC. 9401. REPORTS ON OUTSIDE COMPENSA-
TION EARNED BY CONGRESSIONAL
EMPLOYEES.
(a) REPORTS.—The supervisor of an indi-
vidual who performs services for any Mem-
ber, committee, or other office of the Senate
or House of Representatives for a period in
excess of four weeks and who receives com-
pensation therefor from any source other
than the Federal Government shall submit a
report identifying the identity of the source,
amount, and rate of such compensation to—
(1) the Select Committee on Ethics of the
Senate, in the case of an individual who per-
forms services for a Member, committee, or
other office of the Senate; or
(2) the Committee on Ethics of the House
of Representatives, in the case of an indi-
vidual who performs services for a Member
(including a Delegate or Resident Commis-
sioner to the Congress), committee, or other
office of the House.
(b) TIMING.—The supervisor shall submit
the report required under subsection (a) with
respect to an individual—
(1) when such individual first begins per-
forming services described in such subpara-
graph;
(2) at the close of each calendar quarter
during which such individual is performing
such services; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00122 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.105 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2495
March 6, 2019
(3) when such individual ceases to perform
such services.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentlewoman
from North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from North Carolina.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I rise to speak on behalf of
my amendment, co-authored by Rep-
resentative HARLEY ROUDA of Cali-
fornia, which seeks to bring badly-
needed transparency to sources of com-
pensation for certain individuals staff-
ing the legislative branch.
I would like to start by thanking my
colleague from California (Mr. ROUDA)
for working together in this bipartisan
fashion. I am always willing to work
across the aisle to find common
ground, and I am glad to have found a
partner in him on this issue.
I would be remiss, however, if I did
not mention the missed opportunity
for doing so on the underlying bill.
This underlying legislation ran afoul of
the legislative process, having gone
through only one markup, despite 10
committee referrals.
Democratic leaders also rejected
many Republican amendments that I
support, amendments that would have
terminated Congressional pensions,
prohibiting pay for Congressmen when
the government shuts down, and other
commonsense reforms.
If we are serious about strengthening
our democracy, we need to start with
reforming our own Congress. Luckily,
Representative ROUDA and I are doing
just that through our amendment. Our
amendment codifies a Senate rule that
requires legislative branch offices to
disclose the source of funding for Con-
gressional fellows.
While the general public understands
the need for strict regulations on cam-
paign contributions, gifts, and other
methods of influence, many Americans
would be shocked to learn that the in-
fluence of personnel is escaping public
notice.
The Congressional Fellows program
is a great contribution to this institu-
tion on the whole, as it offers direct ex-
posure and experience in the legislative
process to people outside of the Belt-
way. That exposure is great for our de-
mocracy and great for the American
public.
However, it goes without saying that
fellows being paid by industry groups,
advocacy groups, or for-profit indus-
tries shouldn’t be creating any undue
advantage by way of their access to
this body.
In fact, there is an old saying around
Congress that personnel equals policy.
If that is so evident to Members of Con-
gress, then surely we can understand
the potential conflicts of interest that
could arise from this influence.
It has been reported some Congres-
sional Fellows are working on legisla-
tion pertaining to the very interest
group they are being paid by to support
their work in Congress. The public
would rightfully be outraged to learn
that even some of the largest social
media firms in this country are retain-
ing fellows on Capitol Hill, and yet, the
average citizen outside the Beltway
has no way of knowing about it. This
situation gives a whole new meaning to
the term ‘‘social media influencer.’’
While House ethics rules currently
bar fellowship programs from giving an
‘‘undue advantage to special inter-
ests,’’ the House of Representatives
lacks a reporting requirement to ex-
pose conflicts of interest.
Our amendment would fill this gap
by mandating that legislative offices
disclose the rate and source of com-
pensation for Congressional Fellows to
their Chamber’s respective Ethics
Committee.
The taxpayers have a right to know
about the funding, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Chairman, at this time, let me
yield to the gentleman from California
(Mr. ROUDA), my cosponsor for the
amendment.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I rise today
in support of this bipartisan amend-
ment, which would codify disclosure re-
quirements for paid Congressional fel-
lowships sponsored by nongovernment
sources.
It has been a privilege to work with
Congresswoman FOXX and her office on
this amendment to enhance trans-
parency in Congress, and I thank her
for her attention to this matter.
I look forward to continuing to work
with Congresswoman FOXX and my
other colleagues across the aisle to ad-
vance bipartisan initiatives.
I am eager to work with Democrats
and Republicans to find common
ground and deliver practical, common-
sense solutions for the American peo-
ple.
By passing this bipartisan amend-
ment, we can show our constituents
that we are serious about improving
transparency and accountability in the
people’s House.
I ask my colleagues to join me in
supporting this amendment.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, could I inquire as to how
much time is remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from North Carolina has 45 seconds re-
maining.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, if personnel equals policy,
then the general public should have ac-
cess to knowledge about the
influencers in our legislative body.
Again, I am glad to have been a part-
ner with Congressman ROUDA in this
bipartisan initiative. I ask my col-
leagues to support our amendment to
uphold transparency, accountability,
and the integrity of our legislative
process. And I urge all Members to vote
for the amendment. It is a very com-
monsense amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.
FOXX).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 18 OFFERED BY MRS. LAWRENCE
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 18 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 555, line 16, insert ‘‘CABINET MEMBER,’’
after ‘‘VICE PRESIDENT,’’.
Page 555, line 19, strike ‘‘the President or
Vice President,’’ and insert ‘‘the President,
Vice President, or any Cabinet member’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chairman, this week, Congress
has an opportunity to restore the
American people’s faith in our political
system. H.R. 1 is a comprehensive set
of democratic and anti-corruption re-
forms that work for the people, as op-
posed to those privileged enough to
game the system.
My amendment is simple. It adds
Cabinet members to the list of individ-
uals who cannot benefit from an agree-
ment with the United States govern-
ment.
By ensuring the President, Vice
President, and Cabinet members are
not able to benefit from agreements
with the government, individuals in a
position to use their authority for
their own personal gain will be prohib-
ited from doing so.
The American people expect their
government to act in their best inter-
est, not in the best interest of their
bank accounts.
When a department issues a ruling,
the American people should not have
to consider whether a Cabinet member
will benefit from that action.
The President, the Vice President,
and Cabinet members all have tremen-
dous power and decisionmaking au-
thority within our government. That
power comes with great scrutiny and
the need for oversight. This common-
sense amendment will eliminate that
confusion.
Aside from providing essential over-
sight for our government, H.R. 1 ad-
dresses serious issues that have
plagued our country for decades. For
years, Americans’ access to the ballot
box has been under attack, and mil-
lions of voters have been removed from
voter rolls across the country.
Democrats are committed to ensur-
ing that voting is free, fair, and easy
for all citizens, and that every vote by
an eligible voter is counted as cast.
H.R. 1, the For the People Act, codi-
fies that oversight, and seeks to shed a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00123 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.032 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2496 March 6, 2019
light on any corrupt actions being
taken by our elected officials and Cabi-
net members.
Mr. Chairman, Cabinet members
should be held to the same standard as
the President, Vice President, and
Members of Congress, and should not
be able to benefit from agreements,
policy, and their actions while serving
the U.S. Government. I urge my col-
leagues to support this commonsense
amendment that will help provide im-
portant oversight of our government.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Michigan (Mrs. LAW-
RENCE).
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 19 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
AMENDMENT NO. 20 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 20 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 127, insert after line 17 the following
new section (and conform the succeeding sec-
tion accordingly):
SEC. 1505. PAPER BALLOT PRINTING REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 301(a) of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081(a)),
as amended by section 1504, is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(8) PRINTING REQUIREMENTS FOR BAL-
LOTS.—All paper ballots used in an election
for Federal office shall be printed on recy-
cled paper.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to elections occurring on or after January 1,
2021.
Page 128, line 4, strike ‘‘subparagraphs (B)
and (C)’’ and insert ‘‘section 1505(b) of the
For the People Act of 2019 and subparagraphs
(B) and (C)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from California (Mr. ROUDA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, the people of
Orange County sent me to Congress be-
cause they were disillusioned with the
nature of our politics, whether it is the
toxic partnership or the vice grip of
special interest money on our political
system.
I offer these amendments today to
improve this landmark bill by regu-
lating political ads and restore voters’
confidence in our elections.
Our government has, for too long,
preferred to shield special interests in-
stead of our constituents; and that
ends by getting out of politics and
passing the For the People Act.
In an age of advanced cybersecurity
threats, more States are looking to one
of the oldest technologies in existence,
paper. Currently, the majority of
States utilize some form of paper bal-
lot for elections, with more taking
steps to adopt paper-only systems.
My amendment would require the use
of recycled paper for Federal elections,
a critical step to increasing the sus-
tainability of our elections. Recycled
paper production emits 40 percent
fewer greenhouse gases, uses 26 percent
less energy, and creates 43 percent less
water waste than non-recycled paper.
The impact of requiring the use of re-
cycled paper for ballots is significant
when you consider the amount of paper
used in the United States. In fact,
Americans use approximately 85 mil-
lion tons of paper a year, about 680
pounds per person per year.
Recycling just 1 ton of paper can save
17 trees, 7,000 gallons of water, 380 gal-
lons of oil, 3.3 cubic yards of landfill
space, and 4,000 kilowatts of energy, re-
ducing greenhouse gases by 1 metric
ton of carbon.
As security concerns continue to in-
spire moves to replace electronic vot-
ing methods with paper ballots, we
must be mindful of the environmental
impact.
b 1915
Using recycled paper for our ballots
would improve not just our right to
vote, but also save the environment.
Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of my
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I claim the time in opposi-
tion to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I respect the gentleman’s
amendment. As important as recycled
paper may be, this, I believe, would
present an undue burden on our States
and our local officials who administer
these elections.
This requirement of using recycled
paper is narrowly tailored for Federal
office elections, yet Federal, State, and
local elections often occur at the same
time. This makes it incredibly imprac-
tical and difficult for State election of-
ficials to comply with this amendment.
States, theoretically, may have to have
two different paper ballots: one for
Federal elections and the other for
State and local matters.
Also, recycled paper is less available
and more expensive, giving local elec-
tion officials fewer options. This re-
quirement could have an undue burden
on States as they aim to comply with
this amendment, and it is impractical,
as voters often vote on Federal, State,
and local elections on the same ballot.
This is ultimately a federalism issue.
I have a problem with the entire bill
being a federalism issue. We should
defer to the States and their budgets
on how to best administer elections
tailored to their unique considerations.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for his comments, but with
all due respect, I don’t believe the facts
support those statements.
It is quite clear that many States are
already using recycled paper in their
ballots, and recycled paper often can be
cheaper than the paper chosen by cer-
tain States. This is a small request
that goes a long way in supporting en-
vironmental health across our great
country and continuing to fight cli-
mate change.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I appreciate the gentleman’s
willingness to show awareness and con-
cern over climate change and our envi-
ronment. Maybe this amendment is
better suited for when the New Green
Deal is called up on the floor for all of
us to cast a vote upon, but this is an
undue, unfunded mandate from the
Federal Government right down to the
State and local officials.
This is something that can cost local
election officials even more money to
run elections and then also run the
risk of them not having enough money
to budget to print enough ballots that
will be available on election day for
the increased voter turnout that we
have seen over the last few election cy-
cles. At that point in time, it becomes
a very big burden on local taxpayers.
This bill is going to be a burden on
local taxpayers. This bill is estimated
to already cost almost $3 billion. It cre-
ates another mandatory spending pro-
gram.
I appreciate my new colleague’s will-
ingness to come here and offer amend-
ments. I just believe that this amend-
ment is, again, adding to the unfair,
unfunded burden that H.R. 1 gives to
many State and local election officials.
State and local election officials
know best how to stack their ballot
boxes to ensure they have enough bal-
lots for everybody to vote, and this will
now be an added cost.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, while I appre-
ciate the comments and concerns about
the potential increase in cost to local
and State institutions in administering
the vote, I would point out that my Re-
publican brethren were quick to pass a
tax bill that added $2 trillion to our
deficit, while simultaneously not ad-
dressing requests by local municipali-
ties and States for additional funding
to make sure that we had proper voting
taking place for all voters across the
U.S.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. ROUDA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 21 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 21 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00124 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.111 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2497
March 6, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 127, insert after line 17 the following
(and conform the succeeding section accord-
ingly):
SEC. 1505. STUDY AND REPORT ON OPTIMAL BAL-
LOT DESIGN.
(a) STUDY.—The Election Assistance Com-
mission shall conduct a study of the best
ways to design ballots used in elections for
public office, including paper ballots and
electronic or digital ballots, to minimize
confusion and user errors.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than January 1,
2020, the Election Assistance Commission
shall submit to Congress a report on the
study conducted under subsection (a).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from California (Mr. ROUDA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, every elec-
tion, hundreds of thousands of votes
are not counted simply because of bad
ballot design. These citizens fulfill
their patriotic duty, but their voices
are silenced by confusing voter instruc-
tions and poor ballot design. This can-
not continue.
Although most Americans associate
bad ballot design with the 2000 Presi-
dential race and hanging chads, unnec-
essarily complex and misleading bal-
lots still plague our elections today.
Confusing ballot design has a signifi-
cant and well-documented effect on our
elections, disproportionately affecting
low-income and elderly voters.
You shouldn’t need a magnifying
glass to read a candidate’s name and
you shouldn’t need a Ph.D. to under-
stand voter instructions. My amend-
ment simply directs the U.S. Election
Assistance Commission to study the
best ways to design both paper and dig-
ital ballots. By reviewing uncounted
vote data and conducting usability
tests, the U.S. Election Assistance
Commission can provide States with
better ballot design guidelines.
This study, which would be due in
January 2020, is a commonsense way to
ensure that more Americans’ votes are
counted next election and in every
election to come.
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting this amendment,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting Chair. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I thank the sponsor of the
amendment.
Mr. Chair, again, this is another
added cost to the taxpayers that I be-
lieve, and my colleagues, I believe,
should agree is already being taken
care of. The EAC is already tasked to
take on this role.
The Election Assistance Commission
is an independent, bipartisan commis-
sion charged with developing guidance
to meet the Help America Vote Act of
2002 requirements.
The EAC has already done extensive
work on best practices for ballot design
that are available to State and local of-
ficials already. In fact, the EAC pub-
lished their insights on the importance
of good ballot design just last month
and are already in the process of updat-
ing its guidance based upon the feed-
back it has received. I would assume
that would have been studied already.
Additionally, every 2 years following
an election, the EAC sends its election
administration voting survey to elec-
tion officials in all 50 States, the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and our four terri-
tories. The survey includes national-,
State-, and county-level data on voter
registration; uniformed and overseas
voters; early, absentee, provisional vot-
ing; voting equipment usage; and poll
workers, polling places, and precincts.
All that to say, again, this is a waste
of taxpayer dollars to be redundant and
have the EAC perform another study
that is going to cost the taxpayers of
this country.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for his comments.
It sounds like we are in agreement,
because he supports studies that have
made these ballots improved over time.
As we just saw from the most recent
election cycle, it is clear that we still
have work to do. So we have agreement
that we want better ballots at all loca-
tions, and I am glad Mr. DAVIS is join-
ing me in support of that.
I also would recognize that this does
not require States to follow the sug-
gested potential improved ballot, but
makes it clear that there are better
ways to do it.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I appreciate the gentleman’s in-
tention, and I appreciate his willing-
ness as a new Member of this institu-
tion to come down here and participate
in the amendment process. We need
folks who come to this institution and
they want to legislate, they want to be
on the floor, they want to offer amend-
ments.
My biggest problem with this amend-
ment is we don’t know how much this
study is going to cost taxpayers. These
are the types of studies that I believe
the information that my colleague
wants to get is already going to be in
place. Why do we need to spend any
more tax dollars on another study that
is going to provide the same answers
that my colleague has already asked
them to now do a new study on? The
EAC is doing their job.
Now, let’s get back to the overall
issue of H.R. 1.
H.R. 1 was a bill introduced on Janu-
ary 3 with zero Republican input, zero
outreach to anybody on my side of the
aisle, let alone the three Republicans
that we have serving on the House Ad-
ministration Committee, the only com-
mittee that marked this bill up.
At that announcement of this 571-
page bill that is cosponsored by every
member of the Democratic conference,
it was shown that, heck, the author
thanked all the outside special interest
groups who helped write it.
We were given no input whatsoever
on this legislation that is going to cost
the taxpayers billions of dollars.
I am sorry, Mr. Chairman. I am going
to do everything I can to make sure we
lessen the amount of undue influence
and unfunded mandates coming
through this amendment process, and
this is my one chance to do that.
Now, I am glad that my colleague
mentioned the H.R. 1 of the last Con-
gress. I learned my lesson not to yield
back, as he just did, because now I get
the last word.
This is an opportunity to remind my
colleague, my new colleague, that it
has even been reported 80 percent of
what the Congressional Budget Office
estimated that our tax cut bill that put
thousands of dollars in the pockets of
middle-class families, it has already
paid for itself by 80 percent. In less
than a year, we changed this. This is
why H.R. 1 of the last Congress actu-
ally helped families put more money in
their pockets.
H.R. 1 this year is going to actually
cost taxpayers billions and put more
money in the pockets of Members of
Congress’ campaigns.
This is a travesty that is no compari-
son, and that is exactly why this bill is
terrible. And no offense to my col-
league; I just oppose his amendment
because I think it is redundant.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. ROUDA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 22 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 22 printed
in part B of House Report 116–16.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 72, insert after line 2 the following:
SEC. 1052. USE OF POSTAL SERVICE HARD COPY
CHANGE OF ADDRESS FORM TO RE-
MIND INDIVIDUALS TO UPDATE
VOTER REGISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Postmaster General shall modify any
hard copy change of address form used by the
United States Postal Service so that such
form contains a reminder that any indi-
vidual using such form should update the in-
dividual’s voter registration as a result of
any change in address.
(b) APPLICATION.—The requirement in sub-
section (a) shall not apply to any electronic
version of a change of address form used by
the United States Postal Service.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 172, the gentleman
from California (Mr. ROUDA) and a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00125 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.115 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2498 March 6, 2019
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, each year,
too many Americans lose their voter
registration status when they move
without updating their voter registra-
tion address.
My amendment is a commonsense
measure which directs the Postmaster
General to include a notice on the
Postal Service’s hard copy change of
address form simply reminding voters
to update their voter registration fol-
lowing a change of address.
The online change of address form on
the Postal Service’s website already in-
cludes a reminder to reregister with
your new address. This amendment
would simply ensure that voters who
use the hard copy change of address
form also get a reminder to update
their voter registration.
No one should be denied the right to
vote simply because they forgot to up-
date their voter registration address
following a move.
Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I claim the time in opposition to
the amendment, even though I am not
opposed to it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I appreciate the opportunity.
I am not necessarily opposed to this
amendment, and if the gentleman is
willing, I am ready to move towards
closing. I am ready to close on this de-
bate, so I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, if my col-
league is ready to yield back and pro-
ceed to a vote, then I am certainly
willing to do so as well.
I reserve the balance of my time.
b 1930
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. ROUDA).
The amendment was agreed to.
Ms. LOFGREN. I move that the Com-
mittee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL) having assumed
the chair, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Acting
Chair of the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union, re-
ported that that Committee, having
had under consideration the bill (H.R.
1) to expand Americans’ access to the
ballot box, reduce the influence of big
money in politics, and strengthen eth-
ics rules for public servants, and for
other purposes, had come to no resolu-
tion thereon.
f
REMEMBERING ANTHONY RIOS
(Mr. ESPAILLAT asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker,
the Dominican Republic lost one of its
brightest stars this week, with the
passing of singer and composer Froilan
Antonio Jimenez, known in the artistic
world as Anthony Rios.
Rios’ ascent was rapid due to his re-
markable work ethic, perseverance,
and an undeniable God-given talent.
Even as a child, Rios demonstrated a
unique ability to intertwine music into
his life.
As a young shoeshine boy in the city
of Hato Mayor del Rey, Rios would ser-
enade his customers. During Christmas
season, he sang Christmas carols door
to door. The world and the Dominican
Republic have lost a true talent.
May he rest in peace and may God
comfort his friends, family, and all
those who knew and loved him dearly.
He will be missed. ‘‘Rest in peace,’’ ‘‘De
descanse en paz,’’ Anthony Rios.
f
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REFORM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ESPAILLAT) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the ma-
jority leader.
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker, as
the whip of the Congressional Hispanic
Caucus, I am pleased to lead our second
monthly Special Order hour.
Last month, my colleagues and I
spoke about the importance of com-
prehensive immigration reform. Since
then, the Congressional Hispanic Cau-
cus Immigration Task Force, led by
Congresswoman LINDA SÁNCHEZ of Cali-
fornia, drafted a set of immigration
principles, which our caucus has now
adopted. We plan to use these as a
guide as we work on developing a com-
prehensive immigration reform pro-
posal. Chief among these principles is a
timely path to citizenship for Dream-
ers and a permanent solution for those
with temporary protected status and
deferred and forced departure.
Democrats made an important com-
mitment to these communities. After a
failed attempt at a bipartisan solution
for Dreamers and TPS recipients last
year, and again a few weeks ago, we
said that if we regained control of the
House, we would move quickly to fix
this. Democrats have spent the last few
weeks working just on that.
In particular, two of our CHC col-
leagues, Congresswoman LUCILLE ROY-
BAL-ALLARD and Congresswoman NYDIA
VELÁZQUEZ, along with Congresswoman
YVETTE CLARKE, have been putting to-
gether a proposal that will provide
overdue needed relief. Their Dream and
Promise Act, H.R. 6, will be introduced
next week. We are also grateful for the
time and effort they have put into this
critical legislation.
That is why we wanted to take this
month’s CHC’s Special Order to focus
on Dreamers and TPS recipients. These
are unique groups within our broader
immigration community and their cur-
rent plight—the uncertainty of their
status—is entirely the fault of Presi-
dent Donald Trump and actions he
took against them.
For Dreamers, the American people
have heard us talk about them for
many years, but I think it serves re-
minding just who those folks are.
Dreamers are mostly young adults
whose parents brought them to this
country when they were minors. They
do not have legal immigration status
in the United States. They are undocu-
mented, just like I was once. They
came here through no fault of their
own. For the vast majority of them,
the United States of America is the
only country they have ever known. A
good number of them grew up not even
knowing they were in immigration
limbo and at risk of being deported.
Some only found out when they ap-
plied to college. Just think about that,
Madam Speaker. You are a young high
school student with your whole life
ahead of you. You have dreams and as-
pirations for future careers and you are
excited to take on a new chapter of
your life. Then one day you find out
that you are one of those undocu-
mented folks you have been hearing
about. There is now a barrier to your
ability to get a higher education, to
get a good job, to establish yourself in
our society.
President Obama recognized this in-
justice and he created a program that
would give Dreamers relief from depor-
tation, known as the Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. This
gave them some sense of certainty,
and, most importantly, it gave them
the legal status they needed to pursue
an education and career, to buy a
home, and begin raising a family.
Nearly 800,000 individuals across the
country receive DACA, and thousands
more were still eligible. But President
Trump abruptly chose to end the pro-
gram as part of his anti-immigrant
policies. Not only is this cruel and un-
just, it is economic malpractice.
According to the Center for Amer-
ican Progress, ending DACA will cost
our GDP $460 billion. Let me say that
again, Madam Speaker. Ending DACA
will cost our GDP $460 billion. That is
because it will mean removing 685,000
workers out of the workforce.
If President Trump wants to promote
economic growth, as he says, then why
would he make such a horrible deci-
sion? I leave it up to the American peo-
ple to sort out that mystery. Perhaps
they can do it at the ballot box in a
couple of years.
TPS recipients. Now, what is worse,
Madam Speaker, is that Dreamers
aren’t the only group President Trump
has decided to throw into legal limbo.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00126 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.119 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2499
March 6, 2019
Over the course of his 2 years in office,
the President has ended also temporary
protected status. I know you know that
very well, Madam Speaker, because
you represent the State of Florida.
For thousands of individuals, the
temporary protected status has been
attempted to end. TPS is an incredibly
important program. It allows individ-
uals to stay and remain in the United
States for an extended period of time if
some emergency erupts in their home
country that prevents them from being
able to return. TPS has been using
cases of severe natural disasters, as
well as armed conflict.
Only a few countries have been
granted TPS. The program is so impor-
tant because it allows these people,
who would otherwise be in limbo for an
unknown amount of time, to live their
lives here in the United States, giving
them the ability to work and establish
themselves. Some countries have been
designated under TPS for many, many
years and are still not safe for individ-
uals to return back home.
That is why it has been routinely ex-
tended by Presidents of both parties.
This is not a Republican or a Demo-
cratic program. Presidents of both par-
ties have extended TPS.
TPS holders are established members
of our communities. They are workers,
they are homeowners, they are our
neighbors and they have children and
families that have built their lives
here. They deserve to stay, Madam
Speaker.
And the truth is our economy really
needs them. More than 300,000 individ-
uals are currently beneficiaries of TPS,
but they account for more than $10 bil-
lion in spending power in our economy
according to CAP. They pay local,
State, and Federal taxes. Once more, so
many TPS holders are the parents or
relatives of thousands of U.S. citizen
children, children who deserve to have
their families stay together.
In conclusion, Madam Speaker, fami-
lies belong together. Whether they are
separated at our border, whether they
came here with a young child who only
recently learned he or she was undocu-
mented, whether they cannot return to
a nation that is not able to receive
them, they deserve to stay together,
and they deserve to remain here in the
United States, the place they now call
home.
During the rest of this hour, you will
hear from a number of CHC colleagues
from across the country about how im-
portant Dreamers and TPS recipients
are to their respective districts, how
these hardworking individuals are part
of the very fabric of communities they
represent. I look forward to hearing
from them and sharing their stories
with you, Madam Speaker.
Madam Speaker, I yield to my col-
league from the State of Illinois (Mr.
GARCÍA) whose State is home to nearly
3,000 TPS holders and more than 42,000
DACA recipients. The GDP law, if
DACA were to be removed, is $413 mil-
lion, and TPS spending power in that
State is $91.7 million.
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I thank my colleague, Rep-
resentative ESPAILLAT, for organizing
this important hour to share the sto-
ries of those living in fear as a result of
the actions of this administration.
As a proud immigrant and represent-
ative of a Chicago district that is over
one-third foreign born, I know and un-
derstand the need for a permanent so-
lution to the status of immigrants in
this country. We are long overdue for
legislation that provides a path to citi-
zenship for those with uncertain sta-
tus.
Madam Speaker, there are more than
11 million individuals, including chil-
dren, living in the U.S. who are cur-
rently undocumented. Of those, there
are over 3.6 million Dreamers, children
who entered the U.S. before their 18th
birthday, and over 1.8 million children
eligible for deferred action because
they were brought to the U.S. before
their 16th birthday.
Too many live in constant fear as a
result of the cruel policies of this ad-
ministration.
b 1945
In Illinois alone, there are almost
40,000 individuals enrolled in the de-
ferred action program, but this issue
affects entire families, including those
in mixed-status families.
There are about 800,000 people in Illi-
nois alone in families with at least one
undocumented family member. I want
to share a story of a Dreamer, like
Beatriz, who is a constituent in my dis-
trict, who came to this country at the
age of 6.
Like many, her parents brought her
seeking refuge from hunger, poverty,
and the violent drug wars ravaging
Mexico and Central America. Despite
the toughest odds, Beatriz graduated
from the Illinois Institute of Tech-
nology with no financial aid and work-
ing a full-time job.
Dreamers like Beatriz, if given the
opportunity, are incredible assets to
our country, not a drain. We should
welcome hardworking immigrants like
Beatriz and not make it harder for
them to succeed and, in turn, grow our
economy and enrich the cultural riches
that makes America great.
In Beatriz’s own words: ‘‘While I am
always in fear of deportation, I am not
afraid to work or to study.’’
As an immigrant myself, I empathize
with Beatriz and her story.
Let me be clear: Putting Dreamers
and TPS beneficiaries on a pathway to
citizenship is just one of the many
steps that we must take to undo the
damage the Trump Administration has
done.
The current legal immigration sys-
tem is broken, creating decades-long
delays for family reunifications and ex-
acerbating workforce gaps that harm
our economy.
We cannot continue to turn a blind
eye to over 11 million undocumented
people in our country who live and
work in fear and in the shadows.
Immigrants—many of them are un-
documented—are our teachers, engi-
neers, your law enforcement officers.
We are your firefighters, your plumb-
ers, and your doctors. In some lucky
instances, we are even your Represent-
atives in Washington.
These are people who contribute
every day to our country, and it is time
we act now to reasonable pathways to
citizenship for these hardworking peo-
ple.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from New York for yielding in
order to share Beatriz’s story.
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker,
let me just share some numbers with
you from respective States across the
country.
The number of TPS holders, for ex-
ample, in the State of California, over
50,000 of them; in your home State of
Florida, Madam Speaker, over 44,000 of
them; in Illinois, close to 3,000 of them;
in Massachusetts, over 5,000 of them; in
New Mexico, no data, but fewer than
1,500; in New York, over 25,000 of them;
in Texas, over 46,000 of them.
And the children living with these
TPS recipients are, in California, over
43,000; in Florida, again, over 37,000; in
Massachusetts, over 3,000; in New York,
over 23,000; and in Texas, 49,000 children
are living with TPS recipients.
DACA recipients are also in large
numbers. In the State of California,
you have close to 223,000 DACA recipi-
ents; in Florida, close to 33,000 recipi-
ents; in Illinois, Madam Speaker, you
have close to 43,000 DACA recipients; in
New York, 41,000.
So these are huge numbers for people
who are so important to the fabric of
our country, and that is why we are
here to support them, because families
that stay together are stronger to-
gether. When a family is divided, our
Nation is weaker; when our family is
together, our Nation is stronger.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to my colleague
from Florida (Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL),
whose State is the home State to 45,000
TPS recipients and nearly 33,000 DACA
recipients
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Speaker, DACA recipients are our
neighbors. They are entrepreneurs, col-
lege graduates, educators, and
healthcare providers.
DACA recipients are helping our
country lead in science, technology,
and medicine. Jorge Cortes is one those
DACA recipients.
Jorge came to the United States
from Colombia when he was a teenager.
Despite his undocumented status,
Jorge worked hard. He contributed to
his community and eventually grad-
uated from Florida International Uni-
versity.
After graduating, he quickly estab-
lished himself as an entrepreneur in
Miami’s technology and social innova-
tion sector, eventually employing up-
wards of 15 people. For his entrepre-
neurship and leadership, Jorge was
awarded the keys to both Miami-Dade
County and the city of Miami.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00127 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.122 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2500 March 6, 2019
A path to citizenship for DACA and
TPS recipients like Jorge, would add
$1.2 billion, annually, to Florida’s econ-
omy.
In our discussions about DACA, im-
migration reform, and the economy, it
is easy to forget that DACA recipients
are also people. DACA isn’t just the
right thing to do for our economy, it is
the moral thing to do. It is time that
our immigration system treats all of
them as people, too.
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, as has
been said here tonight, bringing relief,
permanent relief to DACA recipients
and TPS beneficiaries must not be de-
layed. Comprehensive immigration re-
form cannot continue to be delayed.
That is why I am so happy, as I men-
tioned earlier, that in a week or two,
H.R. 6, the Dream and Promise Act,
which promises to bring about com-
prehensive immigration reform in
many ways for DACA recipients and
TPS recipients and other immigrants,
will hit this floor.
We are hoping that all our colleagues
from both sides of the aisle will recog-
nize that this is an important effort to
finally bring over 800,000 young people
permanently to the United States,
young people who are teachers, nurses,
police offers, members of our Armed
Forces. They are business owners. They
purchase their own homes, in many
cases. These are important members of
our communities across the country,
and we must allow them to stay in the
United States of America.
TPS recipients, many of them cannot
return back to dangerous settings in
their homeland. Many of them, their
countries are reeling from natural dis-
asters. It would be a travesty if we
send them back home. They must be
allowed to stay here in the United
States of America. This is an impor-
tant moment in our time.
Families that stay together are
stronger; families that are divided are
weaker. Our country is made stronger
when a family is together. That is why
I am asking all in this Chamber from
both sides of the aisle, next week, to
support H.R. 6, the Dream and Promise
Act, which will finally bring relief to
many, many young people and undocu-
mented people from this Nation, as
well as TPS recipients will finally
breathe some fresh air and be able to
stay here in this great Nation.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
FIVE PILLARS OF WHAT WE
BELIEVE SAVES US
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL). Under the Speak-
er’s announced policy of January 3,
2019, the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
SCHWEIKERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
and to my friend, thank you for stall-
ing.
What we are doing tonight—and we
will try to do it somewhat efficiently
so you don’t have to spend too much
time in the Chair—is every week we
have been taking a half an hour or so—
tonight we may do something less—and
sort of walking through what we be-
lieve is actually an idea that actually
saves this country. And not to be too
melodramatic, but let’s actually walk
through some of the mathematical re-
alities.
We have 74 million baby boomers
moving into retirement. The peak of
the baby boom is just a couple years
away from retirement. So baby boom,
74 million over an 18-year period.
If you look at Federal spending, the
growth in Federal spending from 2008
to 2028 as CBO has calculated—2008 to
2028—91 percent of all the growth in
Federal spending is interest, Social Se-
curity, healthcare entitlement.
I know this doesn’t sort of fit the
mantra that you so often hear around
here from Republicans and Democrats,
but it is math.
We have a demographic issue. We are
getting old much faster than almost
anytime—anytime, I think—in our so-
ciety, and our birth rates have substan-
tially collapsed.
So one of the things we have come to
is saying: How do you maximize eco-
nomic vitality in our society so we can
keep our promises, those promises of
earned benefits like Social Security or
promises such as earned benefits of
Medicare?
We believe we have five pillars, so we
always start with this chart, and you
can do them in any fashion you want.
Last week, we actually did 30 min-
utes—which I am sure was riveting for
anyone who was willing to watch—on
labor force participation, but it is im-
portant.
If you go back over the last couple
years and look at some of the CBO re-
ports, repeatedly there are sections in
there that talk about: What is the bar-
rier to economic expansion in our
country?
They will often talk about two
things: capital stock, basically, savings
rates, money to be lent into the econ-
omy to multiply, to build things, to
grow things; and the second thing is
population, labor force availability.
Well, it turns out, since tax reform,
the capital stock numbers have been
much better than almost any of us had
expected in the modeling. So our re-
straint on economic expansion turns
out to be substantially labor force.
Okay. So that is what we talked
about last week. How do you draw in
millennial males? How do you add in-
centives to those who are older to stay
in the labor force? So that was last
week.
We have also actually talked about
what we will have to do—and every
week we are going to do one of these—
dealing with the earned benefits. Are
there things we can do in those earned
benefits to add some competition for
when someone is buying their medical
benefits through Medicare? Can we add
certain incentives?
Say I am healthy. I wish to work
longer. Can we give you certain incen-
tives to either of those programs in the
Tax Code to stay in the labor force as
long as you are healthy?
And we actually see other societies
around the world—you know, look at
Japan and others—who are actually
having to work through this concept as
their demographics get older. How do
they actually keep as much of their
population still within the labor force
so the economy continues to stay sta-
ble and grow?
b 2000
Economic growth, we are going to do
a whole presentation on everything
you do from designing a Tax Code that
stays competitive in the world, some-
what like we did a year-plus ago, that
incentivizes capital formation,
incentivizes investment in plant and
equipment and technology, because we
had gone functionally almost two dec-
ades with very little productivity
growth.
Do you want to pay Americans more?
Well, what is the formula? Do we all re-
member our high school economics
class? What are the two elements that
go into typical growth in someone’s
salary? Well, it is inflation. If you get
an inflation adjustment, you are not
getting any further ahead. You are just
sort of holding steady. It is produc-
tivity.
When we look at the formulas that
end up organically, systematically
thought through, when businesses pay
their workers more, here is the infla-
tion adjustment. By the way, we
bought a new plant; we bought new
equipment; we bought new technology.
We are able to make this many more
widgets now. Our productivity has gone
up. We can pay more. That is the key
reason.
We functionally have gone a couple
decades with very little wage growth
because we didn’t have productivity
growth.
As we start to talk about economic
growth, it is going to be everything
from designing a Tax Code that maxi-
mizes that type of growth, to trade pol-
icy that maximizes economic expan-
sion in our country, all the way down
to how you design a rational regu-
latory environment.
Some people like to come behind
these microphones and talk about de-
regulation or re-regulation. I want to
make the argument that we should be,
as a society, talking about smart regu-
lation.
You have a supercomputer in your
pocket or your purse, that phone you
have. Why aren’t we using much more
technology to be the driver of our regu-
latory environment?
A simple example: What would hap-
pen if you could crowd source data on
the environment? You could have a few
thousand people. If you are in a large
urban area or other areas that have a
sensor on your phone that says, hey, I
am going to help crowd source ozone,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00128 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.123 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2501
March 6, 2019
or crowd source volatile organics, or
whatever, our environmental regulator
is no longer a file cabinet of paperwork
where we put paper and document
more, document more. Instead, it is al-
most like a quick reaction for us of:
Hey, the sensors are saying there is a
hotspot over here. Let’s go deal with it.
I think it is time we revolutionize
what we consider financial, environ-
mental, health types of regulations, re-
alizing we have technology today that
would make us healthier, more pros-
perous, our financial markets much
more stable, and the time between a
bad act and something getting fixed
could be minutes, not years.
An example is, if you had certain
types of technology, a Bernie Madoff
could never happen because you would
instantly know his accounts don’t
match his bank accounts.
The other one we are going to do
next week is technology disruption.
What happens if you could go home
and, at home, you have this thing that
looks like a large kazoo? You could
blow into it, and it instantly tells you
if you have the flu or not and then in-
stantly could order your antivirals. A
couple hours later, those antivirals
could be delivered to your home. How
much healthier would you be?
We are going to bring in a whole se-
ries of healthcare technologies that is
a true disruption because, remember,
part of our premise is, if you look at
the cost curves, so much of it is Medi-
care. The fact is, we do not have the re-
sources set aside to keep our promises
right now.
That technology, if we do the adop-
tion, if we remove the barriers, could
be an amazing disruption in the price
of healthcare because this body—let’s
be brutally honest—for a decade, we
have been having the wrong debate. We
have the ACA over here, which, func-
tionally, just moved around who got to
pay. We had many of our Republican
alternatives that we believed would
add some competition and those
things, but it was, substantially, who
got to pay.
It is time the Republicans and Demo-
crats got together to understand there
is a technology revolution out there
that could be, that can be, that will be
the price disrupter on healthcare, if
this body is willing to remove those
barriers to that technology.
Imagine being able to have certain
wearables, whether you are the type of
person who walks around with a
smartwatch or the type of person who
has the patch that can read your blood
oxygen and these types of things, or
the autonomous healthcare clinics that
are being experimented with in the
Phoenix-Scottsdale market.
There is a revolution happening out
there. We need more of it. We need to
adopt it faster. We need to remove the
barriers and stop having these crazy
conversations of little, incremental
changes. We need the disruption.
As we walk through, part of the
premise is, if you look at this slide, and
I brought this slide in previous discus-
sions, 91 percent of the spending
growth between 2008 and 2028, interest,
Social Security, healthcare, and func-
tionally the healthcare entitlements.
When you look at that, you start to
realize these other colors you see here
are functionally the other portions of
the budget. Nondefense is green. Yel-
low is defense. Their percentage of the
growth and spending is substantially
flat. A little growth here, a little
growth there, but the explosion in the
curve, where you see those lines going
up, is interest, Social Security, and
healthcare entitlements.
Why doesn’t this place, why don’t we
as Members of Congress, have the hon-
est conversation that, if you care about
the debt, if you care about retirement
security, if you care about these
things, this is the honest conversation?
Take a look at this slide. Between
2018 and 2048, a 30-year period, and this
slide is not adjusted for inflation, you
see the little green bar on the far end?
That is the rest of the Federal budget.
That is the non-Social Security, non-
Medicare. It is actually $16 trillion to
the positive. How do you end up with
$84 trillion in the negative over those
30 years?
It is functionally the interest and the
spending on Social Security, the inter-
est and the spending on Medicare. I be-
lieve we have a moral obligation to
protect these earned entitlements. But
you aren’t protecting them by avoiding
the subject, and that is what this place
has become famous for doing.
Let’s talk about this concept we refer
to in our office as sort of population
stability. Remember, this is just one of
our five pillars. In 9 years, our society,
and its driven by demographics, will
have two workers for every one person
in retirement. Think about that for a
moment.
Programs like Social Security and
Medicare, there were four or five, five-
plus workers for every one in their ben-
efits. In 9 years, we moved 2-to-1. What
also happens in 9 years? It is the end of
the baby-boom cycle, so the end of the
spiked years.
If this slide doesn’t make you go
‘‘wow, maybe we should take this seri-
ously,’’ because we should have taken
it seriously a couple of decades ago be-
cause we knew people were going to
turn 65 from the baby boom for how
many years? Nine years, two workers,
one person in retirement. This is abso-
lutely critical, and this is what is com-
ing to us.
What are the solutions on this par-
ticular pillar we call population sta-
bility? We need to be honest and work
hard for policies that maximize family
formation. I don’t even know if I have
them here—I hope I do—some of the
charts that show you what is hap-
pening in the birth rates around the
country.
You do understand, as a nation, we
are now well below replacement rates
in our population. This one I particu-
larly like because it is from my home
State of Arizona, but the trendline is
almost identical. We will go through
some of that.
If I asked you right now which State
had the largest fall in birth rates, how
many of you would have said Arizona?
It turns out Arizona had the largest
fall in birth rates. It is a little com-
plicated. You have to read through the
data, but Native Americans and His-
panics, their birth rates fell substan-
tially and are looking much more like
the mean of the rest of our society.
Apparently, the demographers say,
that is wonderful. What it means is,
even though this place sometimes
spends a lot of our politics keeping us
apart, the actual demographics say,
when we are all having babies like each
other, it is a symbol that the melting
pot is working, that we are all starting
to have similar education, live in the
same neighborhoods, have similar job
descriptions. Now our family forma-
tions are starting to look very, very
similar.
That is wonderful. The melting pot is
working. But understand what that
means in the future, having enough
workers to participate in keeping the
economy growing and stable.
These pay-as-you-go programs, which
are Social Security and Medicare, have
that vitality, and this is a real threat
when you start to see these sorts of
numbers and understand what that
means.
How do you reach a level of popu-
lation stability? This is a brand-new
slide for us. We are going to do a little
more on what is happening population-
wise. Once you substantially look at,
we will call it the green line, the sec-
ond one down, do you see that precipi-
tous fall?
If we are right here, that was sort of
our last time of being in the positive, a
bit before 2010. Since then, we have
continued to fall, and fall, and fall.
Now our demographers are coming
back and saying, yeah, this is sort of
the new normal, because it is not just
the United States.
Apparently, this trend is all over the
industrialized world. A lot of the great
writers and thinkers on demographics
are saying the next prized asset in the
world isn’t going to be lithium for bat-
teries or petroleum products. It is
going to be people, smart people.
You are starting to see that around
the world where other countries right
now are even starting to change some
of their immigration rules to say, if
you have talent, you are given a much
faster path to enter our country. We
are going to have to have that very
honest conversation of a major change
in our immigration system.
The last slide here, and then we are
going to talk about some of the solu-
tions in this, this is just sort of fun to
understand that it is a trend. We have
one or two States that are still buck-
ing the trend of having positive popu-
lation growth, and that is through
birth rates. But the rest of the country
is substantially collapsing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00129 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.125 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2502 March 6, 2019
What do you do for population sta-
bility? Okay, back to family forma-
tion. Are there things we can do that
will work? We have spent about a year
in our office reading literature from
around the world, what they have done
in Scandinavia, what they are doing
right now in Hungary, what has been
done in a province in Canada, trying to
promote native births. Small, incre-
mental changes—no one has found the
magic formula.
Maybe we as a society have to have
this discussion. What works? What can
we do? Is it something you do in the
Tax Code? Is it something you do in
family friendly policies? What do we do
to maximize family formation in our
country?
Right now, when you start to look at
the cost, I have only one beautiful lit-
tle girl, and you realize, children are
the greatest thing that ever happened
to my wife and I, but it is expensive.
The second part of that population
stability discussion is, if you are over
here working on family formation and
making sure society understands the
blessing of children in our society, are
there immigration policies that if you
are bringing in populations into the
United States that maximize the eco-
nomic vitality?
b 2015
So part of this thought experiment,
based on the actual numbers in the last
10 years, the U.S. fall in birthrates
functionally equals 4 million children
that we expected that with the fallen
birthrates will not be part of our soci-
ety. You do realize that over 10 years
that is functionally 4 full years of legal
immigration.
So let’s say we actually were effec-
tive in being serious about family for-
mation here, and we actually started
to have an honest discussion of as a so-
ciety do we start to do the things such
as New Zealand, Great Britain, Aus-
tralia, Canada, and others are doing
where substantially it is a talent-based
immigration system?
Why do you want to fixate on that?
It is an immigration system that ac-
tually has the elegance of we don’t care
about your gender, we don’t care about
your religion, and we don’t care about
your race. But what we care about as a
society is we care about the vitality,
the energy, and the talent you bring to
our society to maximize the economic
growth so we can keep our promises,
particularly on Social Security and
Medicare.
Remember, demographics are really
the biggest issue we as a society are
facing, except it is really hard to talk
about it because the math is complex.
So are we as a body willing to take
on complex issues and understand you
can’t just do one of them?
There was a time here a decade ago
or so people would come to the micro-
phone and say: Well, if we do entitle-
ment reform, then we get this.
We have missed that window.
Now my argument to this country, to
my brothers and sisters here in Con-
gress, is we have to actually reach out
to at least the five pillars we have laid
out of maximizing economic growth,
and that is everything from tax policy
to trade policy to regulatory policy,
and labor force participation.
How do you design programs, every-
thing from Social Security Disability
to TANF to food stamps to this and
that, saying we want you in the labor
force?
What can we do so you have your
safety net, but we have got to get you
into the labor force?
What do you do for population sta-
bility as we have talked about right
now?
What do you do for dramatic disrup-
tive technology adoption, particularly
for healthcare, but it can also be for
environment?
We are going to actually do that in
the coming weeks.
Then we will have to step up and
have an honest conversation of as the
promised earned benefits, we call enti-
tlements, how can we adjust and refine
them so they incentivize to stay in the
labor force, but they incentivize effi-
ciencies of how healthcare is pur-
chased?
We need to do this as an entire soci-
ety. Once again, remember, in 9 years,
two workers, one person in retirement,
one person 65. Over the 20-year period,
2008 to 2028, 91 percent of all the growth
in spending will be interest, Social Se-
curity, and healthcare entitlements. In
9 years—the CBO report that came out
last month has a beautiful graph in
there—in 9 years, 50 percent of all the
noninterest spending coming from
Washington, D.C. will be for those who
are 65 and older.
So if you care about keeping our
promises, if you care about this coun-
try being able to maintain its place in
the world, it is math. It is demo-
graphics. There is a path for us to suc-
ceed, but it no longer works. The math
no longer works by just doing one
thing or these little, incremental,
petty things I see happening around
here on this floor where it is political
power grabs instead of the things that
stabilize and grow our country and pro-
tect my 3-year-old daughter and her
economic future and her opportunity
to actually live the American Dream.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
I move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 19 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, March 7, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
322. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Special Operations/Low Intensity Conflict,
Department of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s report and certification for FY
2018; to the Committee on Armed Services.
323. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Ohio; Ohio
Permit Rules Revisions [EPA-R05-OAR-2018-
0121; FRL-9990-44-Region 5] received March 1,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
324. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Tennessee;
NOx SIP Call and CAIR [EPA-R04-OAR-2018-
0631; FRL-9990-32-Region 4] received March 1,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
325. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Air Plan Approval;
Michigan [EPA-R05-OAR-2007-1092-0028; FRL-
9990-43-Region 5] received March 1, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
326. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Minnesota;
Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste In-
cineration Units and Other Solid Waste In-
cineration Units Negative Declarations for
Designated Facilities and Pollutants [EPA-
R05-OAR-2018-0588; FRL-9990-45-Region 5] re-
ceived March 1, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
327. A letter from the Chief Operating Offi-
cer and General Counsel, Office of Science
and Technology Policy, Executive Office of
The President, transmitting an action on
nomination, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a);
Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat. 2681-614);
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
328. A letter from the Assistant Chief
Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Office of Haz-
ardous Materials Safety, Pipeline and Haz-
ardous Materials Safety Administration, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Hazardous Ma-
terials: Oil Spill Response Plans and Infor-
mation Sharing for High-Hazard Flammable
Trains (FAST Act) [Docket No.: PHMSA-
2014-0105 (HM-251B)] (RIN: 2137-AF08) re-
ceived March 1, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Ms.
TITUS, and Mr. COHEN):
H.R. 1549. A bill to protect the rights of
passengers with disabilities in air transpor-
tation, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr. SEN-
SENBRENNER):
H.R. 1550. A bill to support State and tribal
efforts to develop and implement manage-
ment strategies to address chronic wasting
disease among deer, elk, and moose popu-
lations, to support applied research regard-
ing the causes of chronic wasting disease and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00130 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR7.126 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2503
March 6, 2019
methods to control the further spread of the
disease, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, and in addition to the
Committee on Natural Resources, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Mr.
STIVERS):
H.R. 1551. A bill to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act to improve the quality,
health outcomes, and value of maternity
care under the Medicaid and CHIP programs
by developing maternity care quality meas-
ures and supporting maternity care quality
collaboratives; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 1552. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to furnish headstones or mark-
ers to private cemeteries for graves of cer-
tain veterans without next of kin; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. KAP-
TUR, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. MCNERNEY, and Ms.
WILD):
H.R. 1553. A bill to provide for cost-of-liv-
ing increases for certain Federal benefits
programs based on increases in the Con-
sumer Price Index for the elderly; to the
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs,
Oversight and Reform, and Armed Services,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BABIN (for himself, Mr. HAR-
RIS, Mr. POSEY, Mr. GOSAR, and Mr.
STIVERS):
H.R. 1554. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide for interest-free
deferment on student loans for borrowers
serving in a medical or dental internship or
residency program; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. BRINDISI:
H.R. 1555. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to require cable operators
and internet service providers who are sub-
ject to State fines to submit a report, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself and
Mr. STEUBE):
H.R. 1556. A bill to make daylight savings
time permanent, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr.
BURCHETT, Ms. SLOTKIN, and Mrs.
AXNE):
H.R. 1557. A bill to amend title 11 of the
United States Code to prohibit the payment
of bonuses to highly compensated individuals
employed by the debtor and insiders of the
debtor to perform services during the bank-
ruptcy case; and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CASTEN of Illinois (for himself,
Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. VAN DREW,
Mr. SIRES, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. MOORE, Mr. NADLER, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
and Mr. CICILLINE):
H.R. 1558. A bill to delay by 5 weeks the
time for individuals to file certain calendar
year 2018 income tax returns; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
H.R. 1559. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to strengthen program
integrity and enhance low-income patient
benefits for safety net providers; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself, Ms.
DELBENE, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. AGUILAR,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. BEYER, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. CASTOR of Flor-
ida, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CLYBURN,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Ms. DEGETTE, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. MICHAEL
F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. EVANS, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
FRANKEL, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. HECK,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. HIMES,
Mr. HOYER, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. JOHNSON
of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. KEATING, Ms. KELLY
of Illinois, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KILMER,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr.
LANGEVIN, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. LEVIN
of Michigan, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Mr. LOEBSACK, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs. LOWEY,
Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Ms. MATSUI,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. MENG, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. NADLER,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms.
PINGREE, Ms. PLASKETT, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. RASKIN,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. RYAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Mr. SARBANES, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Ms. TITUS, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
TONKO, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Mr. VARGAS, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. VELA,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. WATERS, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. WELCH, Ms. WEXTON,
Ms. WILD, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
YARMUTH, Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms.
HILL of California, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. ALLRED, Ms.
GABBARD, Mrs. CRAIG, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr.
CRIST, and Ms. HOULAHAN):
H.R. 1560. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make the child tax cred-
it fully refundable, establish an increased
child tax credit for young children, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.R. 1561. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to prohibit certain acts of nepo-
tism, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for him-
self, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri, and Mr. DEFA-
ZIO):
H.R. 1562. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to provide certain authority to
the National Transportation Safety Board to
investigative commercial space transpor-
tation accidents, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 1563. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Agriculture to release certain reversionary
interests of the United States in and to a
parcel of land located in Henderson, Ten-
nessee; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, and Mrs. DINGELL):
H.R. 1564. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to stabilize and mod-
ernize the provision of partial hospitaliza-
tion services under the Medicare Program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. HUNTER (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, and Mr. PETERS):
H.R. 1565. A bill to establish a new higher
education data system to allow for more ac-
curate, complete, and secure data on student
retention, graduation, and earnings out-
comes, at all levels of postsecondary enroll-
ment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on Armed Services,
Veterans’ Affairs, and Ways and Means, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. JAYAPAL:
H.R. 1566. A bill to amend the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 to ensure on-
line access to the registration statements
filed under such Act, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LUJÁN (for himself, Ms.
HAALAND, and Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico):
H.R. 1567. A bill to authorize the Depart-
ment of Defense to temporarily provide
water uncontaminated with
perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and
perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) for agri-
cultural purposes to areas affected by con-
tamination from military installations, and
to authorize the Secretary of the Air Force
to acquire real property to extend the con-
tiguous geographic footprint of any Air
Force base that has shown signs of contami-
nation from PFOA and PFOS due to activi-
ties on the base, and for other purposes; to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00131 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L06MR7.100 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2504 March 6, 2019
the Committee on Armed Services, and in
addition to the Committees on Energy and
Commerce, and Transportation and Infra-
structure, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. MOULTON (for himself, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
POSEY, and Mr. KEATING):
H.R. 1568. A bill to assist in the conserva-
tion of the North Atlantic right whale by
supporting and providing financial resources
for North Atlantic right whale conservation
programs and projects of persons with exper-
tise required for the conservation of North
Atlantic right whales, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
the Budget, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. SCHWEIKERT,
Mr. GALLEGO, and Mrs. LESKO):
H.R. 1569. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to add Flagstaff and Yuma to
the list of locations in which court shall be
held in the judicial district for the State of
Arizona; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PAYNE (for himself, Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. MCEACHIN,
Mr. MCKINLEY, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. EVANS, Mr.
FOSTER, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. HECK, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
KILMER, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Ms. MATSUI, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. MOULTON, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. SPEIER, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. BABIN,
Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr. COOK,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. GIANFORTE, Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio,
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. KING of
Iowa, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. MOONEY
of West Virginia, Mr. MULLIN, Mr.
PERRY, Mr. SHIMKUS, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mr. TIPTON, Mr. TURNER, Mr. ZELDIN,
Ms. DELBENE, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. GIBBS, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr. BERA, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mr. BRINDISI,
Ms. FUDGE, Mr. SIRES, Mr. NADLER,
Mr. TAKANO, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs.
AXNE, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, Mr. MICHAEL
F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. PRICE
of North Carolina, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
YARMUTH, Mr. KEATING, Mr. LYNCH,
Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
SCHIFF, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. KUSTOFF of Ten-
nessee, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. PASCRELL,
Ms. ADAMS, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Mr. MORELLE, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Mr. CLYBURN, Ms. WATERS,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Il-
linois, Mr. CLAY, Mr. RUSH, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, Mr. MEEKS, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. BASS, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, and Mr. GREEN
of Texas):
H.R. 1570. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to waive coinsurance
under Medicare for colorectal cancer screen-
ing tests, regardless of whether therapeutic
intervention is required during the screen-
ing; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Ms. DEAN, Mr. DESAULNIER,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. GOMEZ,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. HILL of
California, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. KHANNA,
Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
of New York, Ms. MOORE, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. OMAR, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Ms. TLAIB, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
and Mr. WELCH):
H.R. 1571. A bill to establish State-Federal
partnerships to provide students the oppor-
tunity to attain higher education at in-State
public institutions of higher education with-
out debt, to provide Federal Pell Grant eligi-
bility to DREAMer students, to repeal sus-
pension of eligibility under the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 for drug-related offenses,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Mr.
ROONEY of Florida, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Ms. ESHOO,
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. COHEN, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. TONKO, Mr. COOPER,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Ms. GABBARD, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Mr. CASE):
H.R. 1572. A bill to promote botanical re-
search and botanical sciences capacity, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. SCANLON (for herself and Mr.
SARBANES):
H.R. 1573. A bill to amend the Help Amer-
ica Vote Act of 2002 to promote access to
voter registration and voting for individuals
with disabilities, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on House Administration.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
MENG, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Ms. WEXTON, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
RASKIN, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
and Mr. MCNERNEY):
H.R. 1574. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to make it a criminal offense
for individuals to engage in sexual acts while
acting under color of law or with individuals
in their custody, to encourage States to
adopt similar laws, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 1575. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to lengthen the statute of
limitations for enforcing robocall violations,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself, Mr.
SABLAN, Ms. MOORE, Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puer-
to Rico, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. SIRES, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. LEE of California,
and Mr. MORELLE):
H.R. 1576. A bill to amend the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 to provide for the partici-
pation of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, and
the Northern Mariana Islands in supple-
mental nutrition assistance program; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself, Mrs.
HARTZLER, and Mr. BERGMAN):
H.R. 1577. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the procurement
practices of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Ms.
DELAURO, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. ENGEL, Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. MENG, Mr.
KING of New York, Mr. LANGEVIN, and
Mr. DELGADO):
H.R. 1578. A bill to repeal the requirement
directing the Administrator of General Serv-
ices to sell Federal property in Plum Island,
New York, and to establish certain require-
ments for its final disposition including pres-
ervation of the island for conservation, edu-
cation, and research, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security,
and in addition to the Committee on Natural
Resources, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. PAYNE (for himself, Mr.
RASKIN, Ms. NORTON, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. RUSH, and Mr. HASTINGS):
H. Res. 180. A resolution supporting the
designation of March 2019 as National
Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. RYAN:
H. Res. 181. A resolution expressing support
for designation of May 30 as ‘‘National
Bartter Syndrome Day’’; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 1549.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 1550.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00132 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L06MR7.100 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2505
March 6, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 1551.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under the following pro-
visions of the United States Constitution:
∑ Article I, Section 1;
∑ Article I, Section 8, Clause 1;
∑ Article I, Section 8, Clause 3; and
∑ Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 1552.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
section 8 of Article I of the Constitution
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 1553.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. BABIN:
H.R. 1554.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. BRINDISI:
H.R. 1555.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes;
By Mr. BUCHANAN:
H.R. 1556.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 provides Con-
gress with the power to ‘‘regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 1557.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. CASTEN of Illinois:
H.R. 1558.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
H.R. 1559.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
ARTICLE I, SECION 8
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 1560.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.R. 1561.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana:
H.R. 1562.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 3 and 18 of the
United States Constitution
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 1563.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 (the Prop-
erty Clause).
Under this clause, Congress has the power
to dispose of and make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory or other
property belonging to the United States.
By Mr. HASTINGS:
H.R. 1564.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. HUNTER:
H.R. 1565.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. JAYAPAL:
H.R. 1566.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. LUJÁN:
H.R. 1567.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.R. 1568.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1569.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. PAYNE:
H.R. 1570.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 3—Congress has
the ability to regulate Commerce with for-
eign Nations, and among the several States,
and with the Indian Tribes.
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 1571.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 1572.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Ms. SCANLON:
H.R. 1573.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 1574.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 1575.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 1576.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 9, Clause 7
No money shall be drawn from the treas-
ury, but in consequence of appropriations
made by law; and a regular statement and
account of receipts and expenditures of all
public money shall be published from time to
time.
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory or other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States.
By Mr. WITTMAN:
H.R. 1577.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. ZELDIN:
H.R. 1578.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Artilce 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 38: Mr. HURD of Texas.
H.R. 95: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
STEWART, Mr. COSTA, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr.
BAIRD, and Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 99: Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 101: Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. DUNN, and Mr.
YOHO.
H.R. 114: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 141: Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. COSTA,
and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 194: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
H.R. 208: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 220: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 285: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 295: Mr. SHERMAN and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 299: Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. HOLDING,
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Ms.
BASS, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. LUCAS, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. NEWHOUSE, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. CLINE, Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr.
GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr. STEIL, Mrs. CRAIG,
Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. EMMER, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. VELA, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. WITTMAN, and Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 307: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 339: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 375: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 400: Ms. WILD and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 414: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 444: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 448: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 513: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina,
Mr. ROUZER, and Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 530: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 532: Mr. VEASEY and Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 535: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 569: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 592: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 596: Mr. SIRES and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 613: Mr. ROUZER and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 615: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 618: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 649: Mr. MAST and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 650: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 652: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 663: Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
UPTON, and Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 693: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 724: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 727: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 732: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 739: Mr. SIRES, Ms. HOULAHAN, and Mr.
SHERMAN.
H.R. 763: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 774: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 783: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 808: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 810: Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. RUSH, Mr. KILDEE, and
Mr. SUOZZI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00133 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.034 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2506 March 6, 2019
H.R. 824: Mr. DESAULNIER and Ms. BASS.
H.R. 849: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
SIRES, Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. COX of California,
Ms. DEAN, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 864: Mr. CARBAJAL and Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL.
H.R. 865: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 873: Ms. NORTON and Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 874: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. CÁRDENAS, and Ms. BASS.
H.R. 878: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 890: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 900: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 929: Mr. COLLINS of New York, Miss
RICE of New York, and Mr. SWALWELL of
California.
H.R. 943: Mr. CORREA and Mr. WEBER of
Texas.
H.R. 949: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 959: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 960: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Ms.
MENG.
H.R. 962: Mr. AMODEI, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. GRAVES of
Georgia, Mr. DUNN, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. KING
of Iowa, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, and Mr.
THORNBERRY.
H.R. 973: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. HURD of
Texas, Ms. MOORE, and Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama.
H.R. 997: Mr. WEBER of Texas and Mr.
POSEY.
H.R. 1002: Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. DELGADO, and
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 1018: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
RYAN, and Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 1043: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. KIM, and Mr.
JOHNSON of South Dakota.
H.R. 1045: Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 1049: Mr. KINZINGER and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 1058: Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. MOULTON, and
Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1092: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1108: Mr. CHABOT, Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. WAT-
KINS, and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 1109: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 1128: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 1139: Mrs. BUSTOS, Ms. SPEIER, and
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 1149: Mr. BEYER, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
POSEY, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. HASTINGS, and Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD.
H.R. 1154: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1162: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1179: Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 1225: Mr. WITTMAN and Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 1241: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1279: Mr. CLYBURN.
H.R. 1322: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 1327: Mrs. TRAHAN and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1328: Mr. COLLINS of New York and Ms.
ESHOO.
H.R. 1345: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 1351: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1364: Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. RUP-
PERSBERGER, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms.
FINKENAUER, and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 1371: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1372: Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, and Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 1399: Mr. MCCLINTOCK.
H.R. 1407: Ms. SCANLON, Mr. COLE, Mrs.
CRAIG, Mr. BIGGS, and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 1410: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1415: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 1417: Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1432: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. CISNEROS, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
HAALAND, and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 1436: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 1438: Mr. ALLRED and Mr. LARSEN of
Washington.
H.R. 1444: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1450: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mrs.
TRAHAN, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. FUDGE, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1458: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. LANGEVIN, and
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1472: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 1473: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 1495: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 1497: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1516: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois and Mr.
GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1519: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1528: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1534: Ms. DELAURO, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. COOPER, and Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 1545: Mr. MOOLENAAR and Mr. WEBER
of Texas.
H.R. 1546: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. KIM.
H.J. Res. 22: Mr. AMODEI.
H.J. Res. 44: Mr. SHERMAN.
H. Con. Res. 23: Mr. CICILLINE.
H. Res. 23: Mr. FOSTER, Mr. BACON, Mr.
SHIMKUS, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. VAN DREW, and
Mrs. AXNE.
H. Res. 34: Mr. PANETTA and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN.
H. Res. 54: Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. BACON, and
Mr. SHIMKUS.
H. Res. 60: Mr. COHEN, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. SHIMKUS, and
Mr. BACON.
H. Res. 72: Mr. BARR, Mr. YOHO, and Mr.
STEIL.
H. Res. 91: Ms. TITUS.
H. Res. 106: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H. Res. 107: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr. HURD of
Texas, and Ms. NORTON.
H. Res. 117: Mr. BUCHANAN.
H. Res. 119: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H. Res. 124: Ms. SHALALA and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H. Res. 129: Ms. TITUS and Mr. POCAN.
H. Res. 136: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H. Res. 149: Mr. RATCLIFFE and Ms.
STEFANIK.
H. Res. 152: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H. Res. 153: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H. Res. 156: Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. WILSON
of South Carolina, and Mr. SIRES.
H. Res. 173: Mr. RUIZ, Ms. NORTON, and Ms.
WILD.
H. Res. 174: Mr. GAETZ.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00134 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR7.039 H06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1671
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2019 No. 40
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O God our shield, the giver of victory
and honor, shine on us with Your kind-
ness that brings a rich harvest of joy.
Today, guide our lawmakers with
Your spirit and lead them by the power
of Your prevailing Providence. May
they trust You completely and permit
You to remove obstacles from the road
ahead.
Lord, train them in Your school of
humility so they will walk safely and
never stumble. Help them to remember
that all efforts to defend themselves
will fail without Your grace and mercy.
May they not trust in their own
strength and ingenuity but instead
lean on You the God of might and mir-
acles.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Cir-
cuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, yes-
terday, I came to the floor to speak
about the Green New Deal. I compared
it to the New Deal of the 1930s.
I mentioned before that the New Deal
of the 1930s is not something that we
ought to be emulating.
The National Recovery Administra-
tion of the 1930s was a key feature of
that New Deal. It was designed to
eliminate competition, with industry,
government, and labor all working to-
gether.
The National Recovery Administra-
tion turned out hundreds of codes, reg-
ulating every aspect of business. Small
businesses struggled to comply, job
creation stalled, and prices stayed
high.
When big business and big govern-
ment get together to write regulations,
hard-working Americans suffer. You
don’t create jobs.
So I hope you will take a look at how
complicated the Green New Deal is, be-
sides costing $93 trillion in the future.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the order for the quorum
call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, the
Senate confirmed one of President
Trump’s well-qualified nominees to the
Federal bench and advanced the nomi-
nation of another.
That is what we will do today. With
Allison Rushing’s nomination con-
firmed, we will vote later today on the
nomination of Chad Readler and then
turn to consideration of Eric Murphy
to join him on the Sixth Circuit Court
of Appeals.
Mr. Murphy is a graduate of Miami
University and the University of Chi-
cago Law School and now serves as the
State solicitor of Ohio. He has held two
prestigious clerkships on our Federal
courts, including for Justice Anthony
Kennedy on the U.S. Supreme Court.
So I hope our colleagues will join me
in advancing another wise choice for
our Nation’s judiciary.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. President, on another matter, in
recent months our Nation has watched
the Democratic Party take a sharp and
abrupt left turn toward socialism.
A flawed ideology that has been re-
jected time and again across the world
is now driving the marquee policy pro-
posals of the new House Democratic
majority, and nothing encapsulates
this as clearly as the huge, self-in-
flicted, national wound the Democrats
are agitating for called the Green New
Deal.
Let’s review a few of the greatest
hits in this particular proposal.
Democrats have decided that every
building in America needs to be either
overhauled or replaced altogether.
They are putting homeowners and
small business owners on alert. The all-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.000 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1672 March 6, 2019
knowing central planners here in the
Nation’s capital are raring to remodel
the entire country.
Up next: ending all fossil fuel and nu-
clear energy production. Forget about
coal and all of the jobs it supports in
my State of Kentucky and around the
country. Forget about the oil and nat-
ural gas industry and all of those jobs
as well. The list goes on.
Oh, by the way, forget about nuclear,
too—proving that this proposal doesn’t
even pretend to be a serious effort to
reduce carbon emissions. It is just a
statement of what sounds trendy in
New York and San Francisco.
Anyone seriously concerned about
carbon would know that nuclear power
generates a majority of America’s car-
bon-free electricity. You would think
the carbon police would be glad that
from 1995 to 2016, American nuclear
power met the emissions equivalent of
keeping 3 billion cars off the road.
Let me say that again. You would
think the carbon police would be glad
that from 1995 to 2016, American nu-
clear power met the emissions equiva-
lent of keeping 3 billion cars off the
road.
Oh, but alas, these Democrats will
not let facts get in the way of what is
fashionable.
Besides, why should America bother
being a net exporter of energy when we
could leave all of that economic poten-
tial to competitors like China?
Naturally, as background documents
explained, this means eliminating all
combustion engines—cars, lawn mow-
ers, commercial airliners. Everything
must go. Everything must go.
By the way, that backgrounder really
helps clarify another goal behind all of
this. It is providing ‘‘economic secu-
rity,’’ even those who are ‘‘unwilling to
work.’’
All of this and more can be ours for
the low, low price of a staggering ex-
pansion of centralized government
and—wait for it—upward of a mere $93
trillion. Ninety-three trillion is more
than every dollar our Federal Govern-
ment has spent in its entire history to
date—combined. It is more than the
combined annual GDP of every nation
on Earth.
As our colleague Senator BLUNT and
the policy committee have pointed out,
this amount of money could rebuild the
entire Interstate Highway System
every single year—just for the heck of
it—for 250 years, and you would still
have a little left over—a little left
over.
Or maybe Americans would rather
have something nicer to drive on the
roads we already have. For the com-
paratively cheap price of just $66 tril-
lion, I am told the government could
buy every American a Ferrari. What a
great idea. For the comparatively
cheap price of just $66 trillion, the gov-
ernment could buy every American a
Ferrari. But, of course, everyone would
have to get their driving in before
Democrats ban the internal combus-
tion engine.
To be clear, $93 trillion is just one
number and one attempt to estimate
the pricetag of this fantasy novel. The
proposal is so lacking in details and
math that it is almost impossible for
analysts to even know where to begin
trying to connect it to the real world.
Let’s talk about where this money
would come from. That is always a
question worth asking.
If we spread that $93 trillion out over
10 years and over every American
household, we get about $65,000 per
household—$65,000 every year for every
household. The median income in this
country is around $60,000. So, like any
good socialist plan, I am sure we would
hear a lot about soaking the rich.
We always do. We would hear that
wealthy Americans could pay for this
whole thing, if only they were suffi-
ciently civic-minded, but, of course,
that is not even close to accurate. A
huge share of the bill would land at the
feet of the American middle class.
There are not enough billionaires—
there are not enough billionaires to
pay the trillions needed for this mas-
sive government plan.
Even if Washington decided the IRS
should grab every single cent of ad-
justed gross income above $1 million,
all of it taken, it would only bring in a
little over one-tenth—one-tenth—of
what the Green New Deal is estimated
to cost every year. Take all the money
away from the millionaires, it would
only bring in a little over one-tenth of
what the Green New Deal is estimated
to cost every year.
In fact, in order to break even on this
proposal alone, the Federal Govern-
ment would have to take $9 of every $10
that every single American earns. The
Federal Government would have to
take $9 out of $10 of everything every
American earns.
You had better believe that families’
last dollar would need to go toward
keeping the lights on. By one analysis,
middle-class families could see their
power bills jump by more than $300 a
month under the Green New Deal. That
would take up the last dollar they had
left.
I know Senator ERNST and several of
our colleagues will be speaking at
greater length on this issue later
today, and I am sure each of them will
point out that there certainly is one
green thing about this sprawling pro-
posal, one green thing: the huge, un-
precedented pile of middle-class fami-
lies’ money that Democrats are
itching—itching—to grab.
RESOLUTION CONDEMNING ANTI-SEMITISM
Mr. President, on one final matter, I
want to discuss something that will be
happening on the floor of the House
perhaps as soon as today.
Remarkably, for the second time in
just the last 3 weeks, Speaker PELOSI
apparently feels compelled to have her
Members vote on a resolution that will
reportedly condemn anti-Semitism—a
resolution that will purportedly con-
demn anti-Semitism.
Unfortunately, again, for the second
time in just the last 3 weeks, this
seems to be in response to the invoca-
tion of crude, hateful, and backward
anti-Semitic stereotypes by one spe-
cific freshman member of the House
Democratic majority.
This Democratic Congresswoman al-
ready stoked controversy in mid-Feb-
ruary, having publicly proclaimed that
Israel’s supporters are only in it for the
money. Apparently, she believes the
only reason leaders would stand with
the Jewish people and the State of
Israel is Jewish money. Well, I think
we have all heard that kind of talk be-
fore, and we must not tolerate it.
During my time in the Senate, I have
had the honor of traveling all over
America. I know I speak for colleagues
on both sides of the aisle when I say
that support for the State of Israel and
the U.S.-Israel relationship is deeply
felt—deeply felt—all across America.
Our relationship is built on common
values and democratic principles, our
shared interests, close partnerships,
and deep friendships. The support for
Israel that you see in this Chamber is
not the work of some shadow con-
spiracy. The Members of this body sup-
port Israel because so many Americans
support Israel.
I had hoped this regrettable episode
might have caused this lawmaker to be
more careful with her language, but,
alas, just a few weeks later, here we
are again: more anti-Semitic tropes.
This time, she claims that supporters
of Israel actually have ‘‘an allegiance
to a foreign country.’’ That is that old,
ugly, dual loyalty smear, plain as day.
We should also not overlook that in a
few cases, these anti-Semitic state-
ments have provoked offensive, anti-
Muslim comments in response. That is
hateful and completely inexcusable as
well.
So now the House of Representatives
seeks to distance itself from this Mem-
ber’s remarks and will apparently soon
vote to condemn anti-Semitism for the
second time in just a few weeks. I hope
this time the message is clear.
Support for Israel isn’t about the
‘‘Benjamins,’’ it is about the hearts
and minds of the American people. It is
unconscionable for any Member of the
U.S. Congress, even less a Member of
the House Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, to repeatedly traffic in base
stereotypes.
The long, bloody legacy of anti-Semi-
tism is spread out over the pages of
history, but, regrettably, this scourge
is not confined to history.
Long common across the Middle
East, violent, hateful acts of anti-Sem-
itism have been increasing throughout
Europe. Less than a lifetime after the
Holocaust, 9 out of 10 European Jews
say anti-Semitism has increased—in-
creased—in the past 5 years.
Eighty-eight percent of French Jews
say they actively worry about targeted
vandalism. That country alone saw 541
anti-Semitic incidents in 2018, a mas-
sive 74-percent increase from just the
prior year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.001 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1673
March 6, 2019
In France, in 2006, a Jewish man was
kidnapped for ransom because crimi-
nals assumed his Jewish family had to
be rich. When their plan failed, they
tortured and killed him. A memorial
tree was planted in his honor. Earlier
this month, that tree was found
chopped down—anti-Semitism on top of
anti-Semitism.
Trends here in America are troubling
too. Every year, hundreds and hundreds
of anti-Semitic incidents take place in
America, everything from vandalism to
harassment, to threats in schools, col-
lege campuses, and other public places,
to targeting Jewish institutions.
This racial and religious hate-
mongering deserves swift condemna-
tion—swift condemnation. So I am glad
the House is at least taking up this
short, symbolic resolution and reject-
ing the anti-Semitic tropes this Demo-
cratic Congresswoman keeps peddling,
but at the end of the day, it is just a
symbolic resolution.
If House Democrats wanted to, they
could pass real legislation to take ac-
tion against anti-Semitism and shore
up America’s relationship with Israel. I
know they could because last month
the Senate did just that. We did that in
the Senate last month. The House
should take up and pass S. 1, the bipar-
tisan foreign policy legislation that the
Senate passed last month, 77 to 23.
That legislation walks the walk. It
supports Israel and gives local commu-
nities the flexibility to combat the so-
called BDS movement, which is a kind
of anti-Semitic economic warfare that
opponents of Israel are trying to wage
against the Jewish State.
The bill also attends to other critical
priorities, such as renewing U.S. com-
mitments to Jordan’s security and pro-
viding for the Assad regime’s butchers
to be brought to justice.
S. 1 is not just about combating anti-
Semitism or bolstering the U.S.-Israel
relationship; it is about standing with
an Arab partner like Jordan and pro-
viding justice for the Syrian people. So
my point is this: Resolutions are fine,
but the House could do something that
mattered by taking up S. 1 that we
sent them last month that deals with
the BDS boycott against Israel.
Words are one thing. Meaningful ac-
tion is another. House Democrats
should walk the walk and pass S. 1
without any further pointless delay.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
(The remarks of Senator SCHUMER
pertaining to the submission of S. Res.
97 are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
NOMINATION OF CHAD L. READLER
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, now
on Readler, later this afternoon, the
Senate will vote on the confirmation of
Chad Readler to the Sixth Circuit. As
this Chamber by now is no doubt
aware, Mr. Readler was the chief cook
and bottle washer of the Trump admin-
istration’s decision not to defend the
healthcare law in court. In a brief sub-
mitted to the court on behalf of the De-
partment of Justice, Mr. Readler said
that protections for the 130 million
Americans with preexisting conditions
are unconstitutional.
I say to my Republican friends: Do
you want to vote for a judge who says
that protecting preexisting conditions,
which affect 130 million Americans, is
unconstitutional?
Well, that is what you are going to
do if you vote for Readler.
Even my Republican colleague Sen-
ator ALEXANDER, who oversees the
committee that created these protec-
tions, calls his arguments ‘‘as far-
fetched as I have ever heard.’’
Can you imagine the lack of compas-
sion it takes to argue that 130 million
Americans with cancers, respiratory
ailments, and all the way down to asth-
ma don’t deserve the guarantee of af-
fordable healthcare? Can you imagine
voting for a man who is so cold-hearted
that he doesn’t protect a mother who
has a daughter or a son with cancer
and the insurance company cuts them
off, and they have to watch their child
suffer?
Can our Republican colleagues actu-
ally vote for a nominee who feels that
way not just in his words but in his ac-
tion? This vote is going to be remem-
bered for a long time—a long, long
time.
Can you imagine sitting at your desk
on an average workday and arguing for
a policy with such catastrophic con-
sequences for a third of our country? I,
for one, cannot. That is what Readler
did.
The very next day, after he wrote
that brief, he was nominated for this
lifetime appointment on the bench. Go
figure. Only in the Trump administra-
tion could a person be rewarded for ef-
forts to take healthcare away from av-
erage Americans. That is exactly what
happened.
Yesterday, regrettably, the Senate
proceeded to Readler’s nomination over
the objections of one of his home State
Senators, Senator SHERROD BROWN. Re-
publican leaders are so eager to con-
firm judges that they are willing to
break the blue-slip tradition even when
the nominee is the literal encapsula-
tion of their party’s most heartless pol-
icy, I might add—a policy that helped
them lose the House and could help
them lose future elections, if they only
care about that.
Republican Senators still have a
chance to reject the cynicism behind
Mr. Readler’s nomination. They have a
chance to stand up for healthcare. I
would ask my colleagues, is the con-
firmation of one circuit judge really
worth endorsing the position that our
healthcare law should be repealed and
Americans with preexisting conditions
should not be protected? The answer to
that question ought to be obvious.
I urge my Republican colleagues to
vote no on Mr. Readler’s nomination
this afternoon.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, the more
you look at the Green New Deal, the
worse it looks. Last week, one think
tank released a first estimate of what
the Green New Deal would cost. Here is
the answer: between $51 trillion and $93
trillion over 10 years. Between $51 tril-
lion and $93 trillion. That is an
unfathomable amount of money. The
2017 gross domestic product for the en-
tire world, for the whole planet, came
to $80.7 trillion—more than $10 trillion
less than what Democrats are pro-
posing to spend on the Green New Deal.
Mr. President, $93 trillion is more
than the amount of money the U.S.
Government has spent in its entire his-
tory. Since 1789, when the Constitution
went into effect, the Federal Govern-
ment has spent a total of $83.2 trillion.
That is right—it has taken us 230 years
of American history to spend the
amount of money the Democrats want
to spend in 10 years. Look at it this
way: $93 trillion is enough money to
buy more than 7,000 Ford-class aircraft
carriers. To put that in perspective,
guess how many aircraft carriers the
Navy currently has in its entire fleet.
Eleven.
It is like the Democrats are playing
pretend. It is like they are on a road
trip, and they are trying to pass the
time, and they say, ‘‘What would you
do if you won the lottery?’’ or ‘‘What
would you do if you had all the money
in the world?’’ It is a fun game to play
for a few minutes, but this is not a
game. The government doesn’t have all
the money in the world. That $93 tril-
lion is going to have to come from
somewhere.
Democrats like to suggest that we
can pay for it and pay for just about
anything simply by taxing the
wealthy, but the truth is, taxing the
wealthy or even the merely well-off
isn’t going to pay for this proposal.
Taxing all the millionaires in the
United States at a 100-percent tax rate
for 10 years wouldn’t add up anywhere
close to $93 trillion. Taxing every
household making more than $200,000 a
year at a 100-percent tax rate for 10
years wouldn’t get Democrats any-
where close to $93 trillion. Let’s take it
a step further. Taxing every family
making more than $100,000 a year at a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.002 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1674 March 6, 2019
100-percent tax rate for 10 years would
still leave Democrats far short of $93
trillion.
The Green New Deal is not a plan
that can be paid for merely by taxing
the rich. Actually implementing the
Green New Deal would involve taking
money not just from the well-off but
from working families—and not a little
bit of money either. Ninety-three tril-
lion dollars breaks down to over
$650,000 per household over 10 years.
That is more than $65,000 per house-
hold, per year—more that the median
household income in the United States.
In other words, the cost per household
for just 1 year of the Green New Deal is
more than the yearly income of 50 per-
cent of American households.
Let’s leave aside the stratospheric
cost for just a minute and talk about
the other consequences of the Green
New Deal.
Democrats’ Green New Deal would
put the government in charge of a
large portion of the economy and sig-
nificantly shrink Americans’ freedom.
Under this bill, the government will
impose new and stringent regulations
on your appliances, your car, your
house, and your place of business. It
will limit your electricity options. It
will put the government in charge of
your healthcare. I know that is not
really energy-related, but the Green
New Deal’s authors went beyond en-
ergy to include a full socialist wish
list.
Your options for travel may be lim-
ited. A fact sheet released—and later
deleted—by one of the authors of the
Green New Deal called for a plan to
‘‘build out high-speed rail at a scale
where air travel stops becoming nec-
essary.’’ Well, that might work be-
tween DC and Boston, but it is not
going to work so well if you have fam-
ily in Hawaii. I don’t think the high-
speed rail is going to reach that far. I
would say that you could make the trip
by passenger ship, but, of course, we
don’t know whether ships as we know
them would exist under the Green New
Deal. After all, the plan’s authors want
to eliminate fossil fuels, which power
ships, as well as your car and your
home.
Incidentally, while we are on the sub-
ject, it is worth mentioning that the
Governor of California recently scaled
back California’s high-speed rail
project. Why? Because it was costing
too much money.
Under the Green New Deal, if you
like your car, you probably won’t be
able to keep it. If you like your
healthcare, you probably won’t be able
to keep it. If you like your house, you
may not be able to keep that either.
That same fact sheet from one of the
Green New Deal’s authors says that we
need to ‘‘upgrade or replace every
building in [the] U.S.’’
There is no question that we need to
protect our environment. There is no
question that we should be developing
clean energy sources and building on
our existing clean energy technologies.
I would tell the Chair that my home
State of South Dakota is leading the
way on this issue. In fact, my col-
leagues may be surprised to know that
according to the U.S. Energy Informa-
tion Administration, South Dakota
generates an average of two-fifths to
half of its electricity from hydro-
electric facilities along the Missouri
River. Combined with our abundant
wind generation, which provides rough-
ly 30 percent of our electricity, South
Dakota’s net utility-scale energy gen-
eration is over 75 percent renewables.
I am proud of South Dakota’s renew-
able energy achievements, and I think
we should be encouraging improved do-
mestic energy production, increasing
America’s renewable energy supply,
and reducing consumption through im-
proved deficiencies. What we should
not be doing is adopting a wildly irre-
sponsible, completely unworkable, and
utterly unrealistic proposal that would
drive taxes through the roof, reduce
Americans’ standard of living, and per-
manently damage our economy.
We are going to be voting on the
Democrat’s Green New Deal proposal in
the coming weeks, and it will be inter-
esting to see where all of my colleagues
stand on this socialist fantasy.
You just heard the Democratic lead-
er, the Senator from New York, say
that it is a gimmick and we shouldn’t
be voting on this. It is the first time I
think I have ever heard a leader of one
of the parties here in the Senate come
forward and say that we shouldn’t vote
on something that 11 of his Democratic
colleagues have cosponsored. He
doesn’t want to vote on a piece of legis-
lation that is put forward by 11 Demo-
crats here in the Senate.
Well, I think it is important for the
American people to know. I think it is
important for Members of the Senate
to go on record on whether they think
this is a good idea or whether they
think, as I think most Americans
would believe, this is a crazy idea that
would wreck the economy, cost Ameri-
cans’ jobs, and punish working families
in this country with higher costs for
literally everything they face in their
daily lives.
For the sake of our economy and for
working families, I hope that when this
vote comes, at least some Democrats
will slow their party’s headlong rush to
become the Socialist Party and not
what we have historically known as
the Democratic Party in this country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The Senator from Ohio.
NOMINATION OF CHAD A. READLER
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, judges
are making decisions around the coun-
try right now on voting rights, on civil
rights, on women’s rights, on LGBTQ
rights, decisions that could limit those
rights not just for a year or for a dec-
ade but for a generation. They make
decisions on healthcare; they make de-
cisions on sentencing; and they make
decisions on corporate power. We have
seen judge after judge, especially on
the Supreme Court, put their thumbs
on the scales of justice by favoring cor-
porations over workers, by favoring
Wall Street over consumers, and by fa-
voring health insurance companies
over patients. That is, fundamentally,
why we in Ohio cannot afford to have
Chad Readler on the bench.
Look at an op-ed he took upon him-
self to write as a private citizen, which
reads we should allow the execution of
16-year-olds—kids, children who are 16
years old.
This is at a time when we are taking
important, bipartisan steps forward on
sentencing reform, and this Senate
doesn’t come together very often. This
Senate, under Senator MCCONNELL’s
leadership, actually came together in a
bipartisan way. After all of the mostly
unworkable pieces of legislation he has
written that always help the rich, the
President of the United States signed a
bill, in this case, in which we did the
right thing by taking bipartisan steps
forward on sentencing reform.
How do you turn around and put
someone on the bench for life who sup-
ports executing children? That is what
a 16-year-old is—still a teenager, still a
child under the law. Yet he thinks it is
something we should do—execute chil-
dren who are found guilty.
During his nomination hearing, it
was pretty unbelievable that Readler
stood by his op-ed and refused to dis-
avow his support for using the death
penalty on high schoolers and, pos-
sibly, on even younger children. I guess
I give him credit for consistency.
His record on voting rights is equally
despicable. He worked on behalf of a
far-right group and argued for the
elimination of Golden Week, something
passed by Republicans that had been in
effect for more than a decade, which
means he was limiting the amount of
time people can vote early, and he de-
fended restrictive voter ID and provi-
sional ballot laws. We know exactly
whom those laws target—people of
color, the elderly, young voters. They
are the same people, in many cases,
who face literacy tests and poll taxes.
They are the people JOHN LEWIS and
the foot soldiers of Selma were march-
ing for 54 years ago tomorrow across
the Edmund Pettus Bridge.
It is shameful that, half a century
later, we are fighting that same fight.
Chad Readler again is on the wrong
side. We can’t afford another judge on
the bench who works to undo Selma’s
legacy.
We can’t afford another judge who
has made it his mission to take away
Americans’ healthcare. Chad Readler’s
work threatens the healthcare cov-
erage of 20 million Americans who have
preexisting conditions. Last summer,
Readler did what three career attor-
neys with the Department of Justice
refused to do. He filed a brief that chal-
lenged the law that protects Americans
with preexisting conditions. He filed a
brief nobody else was willing to file.
They all recused themselves. They all
refused to do it. They thought it was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.005 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1675
March 6, 2019
something improper and unconstitu-
tional. One of them, I believe, resigned.
Do you know what happened then?
The next day, he was nominated for
this very judgeship.
So the message is loud and clear from
the administration: If you go after pre-
existing conditions under consumer
protections, if you attack workers’
rights, if you attack voters’ rights
within any job you hold—and there is a
real incentive to do this from this ad-
ministration—you may get a good, life-
time Federal judgeship. The arguments
he made in his brief were unprece-
dented. As I said, three attorneys with-
drew from the case. One resigned alto-
gether in his objections to the Depart-
ment of Justice’s unprecedented ac-
tions.
One of our Republican colleagues,
Senator ALEXANDER, who works with
Senator MURRAY to run the HELP
Committee, called Readler’s argument
as farfetched—Senator ALEXANDER’s
words, who is a conservative Repub-
lican from Tennessee—as he had ever
seen. Yet, in December, a partisan
Texas judge decided to go along with
Readler’s opinion, and he handed down
the decision that undermines pre-
existing condition protections for all
Americans.
Right now, judges are deciding the
future of Americans’ healthcare every
day. We can’t afford to put another ex-
tremist—and he is way out of the
mainstream—in my increasingly con-
servative, Republican State. He is way
out of the mainstream among lawyers,
way out of the mainstream among
judges, and way out of the mainstream
as a citizen. We can’t afford to put an-
other extreme judge on the court who
will not defend Americans’ right to
healthcare.
We know there have been a number
of times this body has refused to take
away the consumer protections for pre-
existing conditions. We remember the
vote late at night when we defeated the
repeal of the Affordable Care Act. We
know that all kinds of Republican can-
didates who were victorious went on
television and said they were going to
defend the consumer protections for
preexisting conditions. We heard that
over and over.
Why did we hear that? Even though
that was not their position a few
months earlier, in the cases of a lot of
them, we heard it because they knew
how popular it was and how much the
public cared about the consumer pro-
tections for preexisting conditions. In a
moment, I am going to share some let-
ters from Ohioans who make the point
that even though, this year, Repub-
lican candidates thought it was all OK
to say we are going to preserve pre-
existing conditions, a vote for Judge
Readler is exactly the opposite.
Don’t go home and say you support
consumer protections for preexisting
conditions and then vote for a judge
who has a history of wanting to take
that right away and who will now have
a lifetime appointment and get another
chance to likely take away the protec-
tions for preexisting conditions.
Let me share a few letters from peo-
ple.
A man from Sandusky wrote to me
about how the marketplaces that were
created by the Affordable Care Act
helped him to start his own business
because he had a way to purchase in-
surance. He was later diagnosed with
lung cancer. He wrote: ‘‘I am watching
the dismantling of the only program
available to me with a pre-existing
condition that I can afford. I am dev-
astated.’’
I don’t know what Mr. Readler thinks
when he reads something like that, but
let me give another example.
A woman from Cleveland writes:
Protect real health care coverage for all
people with pre-existing conditions. Real
people’s lives depend on it. My husband’s life
depends on it.
Chad Readler wants to be a judge.
Chad Readler did the President’s bid-
ding and the insurance industry’s bid-
ding at the Department of Justice. I
don’t know if he knows these people
exist, like the woman from Cleveland
or the man from Sandusky. I hope
Chad Readler would have gone out and,
as President Lincoln said, gotten his
public opinion badge by actually lis-
tening to how the decisions he makes
affect real people.
A woman from Chagrin Falls, which
is a fairly wealthy suburb of Cleveland,
wrote:
I’ve been a cancer patient since 2011. If pre-
existing conditions are no longer covered, I—
along with countless others—will probably
be screwed.
A mother from Waynesville, OH,
wrote:
My family has lived every day worrying
about the ACA being dismantled. We have a
son who was born with a neurological condi-
tion before the ACA.
We lived in constant fear of medical caps
and pre-existing conditions.
Just putting Chad Readler on the
bench increases people’s anxiety. Is
Congress going to take away the Af-
fordable Care Act? Is Congress going to
wipe away those protections for pre-
existing conditions? If Congress isn’t,
are judges going to do that? No wonder
people are so anxious about that.
A woman from Fairborn writes:
I previously lost health insurance from a
possible preexisting condition and now, being
a 2-time cancer survivor, I’m scared of losing
coverage again.
The security of having insurance since the
ACA allowed me to sleep at night and focus
on my health.
My editorial comment on her com-
ments is to focus on her health, not on
whether she loses her coverage.
It is unimaginable that politicians want to
deny so many Americans access to health in-
surance and quality of life.
Senator MURRAY and I sat and
watched a bunch of mostly men on the
other side of the aisle cast their
votes—all who had good health insur-
ance—to take away insurance for mil-
lions of Americans and for hundreds of
thousands in my State and to take
away their consumer protections for
preexisting conditions.
A mother from New Albany writes:
My daughter had two autoimmune diseases
by the age of 6—SIX. That means her entire
life she will be a ‘‘preexisting condition.’’
But she isn’t just a label. She is a person.
Please protect my baby. She already deals
with enough.
I mean, hear the passion in that let-
ter, the strong feelings in that letter,
the cries for help in that letter. Yet
this body may be about to put on the
Sixth Circuit, in a lifetime appoint-
ment, someone who clearly doesn’t
care about people like them.
Another woman from Hillsboro
writes:
We are a family of pre-existing conditions
and survive because we have insurance that
we can afford. My husband works long, hard
hours and has to work 60 hours a week for us
to make it. I’m a teacher. I work about 18
out of 24 hours a day but make $40,000 a year.
We can’t work any more than we already do.
Again, these are people who are
working hard and who are doing every-
thing right. They didn’t ask to be sick.
They didn’t ask for their healthcare
costs to go up. Are we going to put
somebody on the court who wants to
take away the consumer protections
for people like this lady from Hills-
boro?
These Americans work hard. They
pay their premiums. Many of them deal
with all that comes with caring for a
child or a family member who has a
chronic condition. How can Members of
Congress and how can this President—
all who have good insurance paid for by
the taxpayers—stand by and allow ac-
tivist, partisan judges to dismantle
these protections that Americans rely
on?
It is bad enough that so many Mem-
bers of Congress want to take away
these consumer protections. Now it is
unelected judges the American public
really doesn’t know, and this body is
about to put one more of them on the
court, even more extreme and younger
than so many other of these judges.
We can’t afford another judge on the
courts who will vote to take away
Americans’ healthcare, who will vote
to take away Americans’ voting rights,
who will vote to take away Americans’
civil rights.
I ask my colleagues to vote no on
Chad Readler for the Sixth Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I
thank my colleague from Ohio for his
statement and his concerns, and I am
here today to join him on the floor to
oppose Chad Readler’s nomination to
the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals.
I call on every Republican who said
they were going to fight for families’
healthcare coverage, protections for
people with preexisting conditions, to
prove they meant it by joining us.
I have heard my Republican col-
leagues claim time and again that they
care about protections for people with
preexisting conditions. I have heard
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.006 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1676 March 6, 2019
them say they want to tackle those
skyrocketing healthcare costs. I have
heard them say they want to help peo-
ple get the care they need, but when
push comes to shove, I have yet to see
them join Democrats and actually vote
to make that happen. In fact, they do
have a long track record of working to
move us in exactly the opposite direc-
tion.
People across the country have not
forgotten how they had to speak up and
stop Republicans from jamming
through that awful TrumpCare bill,
which would have spiked premiums and
gutted Medicaid and put families back
at the mercy of big insurance compa-
nies that could jack up prices for peo-
ple with preexisting conditions.
Those people also will not forget if
Republicans decide to ignore them
again and rally around this judicial
nominee, who wants to do the same
damage.
Let’s be clear. Chad Readler’s nomi-
nation is the latest test of whether Re-
publicans are serious about fighting for
people’s healthcare, and every Repub-
lican who supports him is failing yet
again.
Make no mistake—Chad Readler has
not only championed some of President
Trump’s most alarming steps, such as
his travel ban, his family separation
policy, his efforts to undermine protec-
tions for LGBTQ people and more; he
has also been President Trump’s right-
hand man when it comes to under-
mining healthcare for people in this
country.
When the Trump administration de-
cided to abandon protections for people
with preexisting conditions in court
and throw its weight behind a lawsuit
that would strike them down, Chad
Readler signed on to the brief defend-
ing the decision. It is a brief that three
other Justice Department officials re-
fused to sign, and one even resigned
over it. But Chad Readler led the
Trump administration’s legal argu-
ment for striking down protections for
people with preexisting conditions,
which will increase costs and throw
healthcare for millions of people into
utter chaos.
It was an argument one of my Repub-
lican colleagues, as you just heard,
called ‘‘as far-fetched as any I’ve ever
heard.’’ I agree. It is farfetched, which
is why it is also farfetched for any Re-
publican who votes to confirm Readler
to continue pretending they care about
protections for people with preexisting
conditions or helping families get af-
fordable healthcare.
The choice, to me, is pretty simple
and straightforward. You cannot be for
protections for people with preexisting
conditions and for making someone
who wants to strike them down a cir-
cuit judge. You cannot fight for fami-
lies’ healthcare and vote to empower
the very people who have been leading
the charge to undermine it. You can’t
vote for Readler and stand with those
families.
People across the country are watch-
ing this vote closely. They know, de-
spite Republicans’ promises to fight for
their healthcare, when it matters as it
does here, when the care they need is
truly on the line, Republicans have not
come through for them.
I hope that changes today. I hope, in-
stead of breaking their word and voting
once more for President Trump’s agen-
da of chaos and healthcare sabotage,
they will live up to the promises and
join us and people across the country
and oppose Readler’s nomination.
Before I wrap up, I want to talk
about the larger issue here because
Readler is not the only alarming judi-
cial nominee from President Trump.
Just this week, in fact, Republicans
jammed through Allison Rushing. She
is an incredibly inexperienced circuit
court nominee who has voiced some in-
credibly alarming ideological views, es-
pecially for women and the LGBTQ
community.
Later this week we expect a vote on
Eric Murphy. He is another nominee
who has taken extreme positions on
women’s healthcare, from endorsing
misinformation by signing on to briefs
that cite false—false—claims about
women’s health to standing in support
of laws that were found to unconsti-
tutionally infringe on women’s repro-
ductive rights and against laws to in-
crease access to contraceptive care.
People across the country have been
absolutely clear that they do not want
to see our courts lurch to the far right.
They know this is a threat. It is a
threat to women. It is a threat to our
workers and our families and our envi-
ronment and so much more.
So Democrats are here. We are going
to keep standing up and fighting back
every time President Trump and Sen-
ate Republican leaders try to move us
in that direction, and I hope some Re-
publicans will do the right thing and
stand with us.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the order for the quorum call
be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today,
the Senate considers the nomination of
yet another unqualified, far-right
nominee—Chad Readler, who is up for
consideration for a seat on the Sixth
Circuit Court of Appeals.
Let me just say at the outset that
any whiff of credibility this nominee
might have had as a judicial nominee
disappears the minute he puts his name
on the Trump administration’s absurd
legal argument that protections for
preexisting conditions are unconstitu-
tional.
To get a sense of how ridiculous this
argument is, you have to look at a bit
of recent history.
In 2012, the Supreme Court ruled that
the individual mandate was a tax, that
it was constitutional, and that the Af-
fordable Care Act would stand. For
millions of Americans, particularly the
ones who wouldn’t have to go to bed at
night fearing that when they woke up,
they could get discriminated against
for a preexisting condition, just as in
the old days—under the ACA, they
wouldn’t have to worry about that any-
more—it was a joyful day when the
court ruled that the Affordable Care
Act would stand, but it was a tough
day for the Republican strategists who
had been so desperate to bring down
the law at any cost.
Next, in the process of jamming the
Trump tax law through Congress, in
late 2017, many Republicans said: Let’s
bring out our old attacks on the Af-
fordable Care Act. They passed an
amendment that said there would be no
penalty for those who failed to sign up
for health insurance, even though ev-
erybody understands that those who
have coverage often pick up the bills
for those who don’t.
Then, in 2018, Republican Governors
and attorneys general in 20 States
made what was really the silliest legal
challenge to the Affordable Care Act
yet, and that was in the case of Texas
v. United States.
Here, they said they were going to
stipulate that the Supreme Court
upheld the Affordable Care Act’s indi-
vidual mandate only because it was a
tax. Then they said: We establish that
the Trump tax law dialed the penalty
associated with violating the indi-
vidual mandate down to zero. At least
that had a kernel of accuracy.
Let me describe how they got into
the backbreaking legal acrobatics
next. They argued that because there is
no penalty associated with violating
the individual mandate, it is no longer
a tax and somehow it has become un-
constitutional. Finally, they argued
that since the individual mandate is
unconstitutional, the whole Affordable
Care Act is unconstitutional and ought
to be thrown out the window.
My own take is that if you were a
first-year law student, you would get a
failing grade for that kind of work on
constitutional law, but let’s stick to
the history.
The Justice Department has an obli-
gation to defend the laws of the United
States. It is a quaint idea, but that is
the role of the Justice Department—de-
fending the laws of the United States
in court.
The Trump administration, however,
said: Who cares? It doesn’t matter. And
they sided with officials who shared
their view.
In fact, the Trump Justice Depart-
ment focused this attack specifically
on the Affordable Care Act protections
for preexisting conditions. It said that
the mandate was inseverable from two
key protections in the law, which
therefore ought to be struck down: the
rule that bars insurance companies
from denying coverage due to pre-
existing conditions and the rule that
bars insurance companies from jacking
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.008 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1677
March 6, 2019
up premiums based on preexisting con-
ditions.
Here is a little bit of a recap. A group
of officials on the far right, who were
out of good cases to bring against the
Affordable Care Act, said: Hey, let’s try
bringing a bad case. At the President’s
direction, the Trump Justice Depart-
ment decided not to fight but, rather,
to take part in this preposterous at-
tack on the law of the land.
To the incredible distress of millions
of Americans who walk an economic
tightrope because they have a pre-
existing condition, somehow the
Trump people got a Texas judge to rule
in their favor. Fortunately, the ACA
protections remained in place while
the case worked its way through the
courts.
There are colleagues here in the Sen-
ate, on the other side of the aisle, who
have objected to what the Justice De-
partment did. Our friend Senator ALEX-
ANDER, a Republican from Tennessee,
who knows a little bit about
healthcare, said: ‘‘The Justice Depart-
ment argument in the Texas case is as
far-fetched as any I’ve ever heard.’’
Senator LAMAR ALEXANDER is a Re-
publican from Tennessee, chair of a
key committee, and works with us on
the Finance Committee. The Justice
Department’s argument, according to
Senator ALEXANDER, is just light years
from a reasonable and rational posi-
tion.
Then the Trump administration went
ahead and threw out centuries of Jus-
tice Department tradition—honored by
Republicans and Democrats—of defend-
ing laws as long as there is a nonfrivo-
lous argument in their favor. They
didn’t decide to throw out that vital
legal tradition in a case involving some
obscure, out-of-date statute. In effect,
they chose to debase the Justice De-
partment and undermine the rule of
law in order to attack protections for
preexisting conditions.
Chad Readler is the Trump appointee
who stepped up and said: Sure, you can
put my name on that legal brief. So
what Chad Readler was essentially say-
ing is that it was just fine with him to
go back to the days in America when
healthcare was for the healthy and
wealthy. That is really what you had if
you allowed discrimination against
those with preexisting conditions
again. If you are healthy, there is noth-
ing to worry about. If you are wealthy,
you can write out a check and cover
the payments for a preexisting condi-
tion and the health services you need.
Make no mistake about it—by put-
ting his name on that legal brief, what
Chad Readler was interested in doing
was taking America back to yesteryear
when the insurance companies could
beat the stuffing out of somebody with
a preexisting condition and find every
manner of reason not to get them af-
fordable care.
People were stuck in their jobs be-
cause of something called job lock,
where they couldn’t move to another
company, even when they got a pro-
motion, because they wouldn’t be able
to get coverage. That is what Chad
Readler wanted to inflict on Ameri-
cans.
The case he worked on was so obvi-
ously political and meritless that three
career Justice Department attorneys
withdrew from it. One senior official,
an individual who had been praised for
20 years of extraordinary service, actu-
ally resigned. Mr. Readler said that
was OK with him too.
He said: We will take America back
to the days when healthcare was for
the healthy and wealthy. I don’t really
much care that senior officials—non-
political officials in the Department—
are leaving because this was such an
extreme way to handle this case. Mr.
Readler said that all of this was OK
and that he would be the public face of
attacking basic protections for 133 mil-
lion Americans with preexisting condi-
tions.
On the very same day, the President
announced his nomination to sit on the
powerful Sixth Circuit. That is a life-
time appointment on the Federal
bench, an extraordinarily important
position.
If there is somebody following the
nomination at home, you just might
ask yourself: Doesn’t that sound look a
quid pro quo?
I am the ranking Democrat on the
Senate Finance Committee, where we
pay for much of American healthcare—
Medicare, Medicaid, the children’s
health program, tax credits available
under the Affordable Care Act, and we
have the tax exclusions available to
employers. On that committee, on
which the Presiding Officer is a new
member, you get a chance to review
the credentials of lots of individuals
who are involved in these decisions in
which the Finance Committee is really
faced with the question of how to make
the best use of what is really $2 tril-
lion, or thereabouts, of healthcare
spending, and I will tell you, in this
area, it is so important to protect peo-
ple with preexisting conditions.
The Trump administration just
seems to have, with one nominee after
another, an inexhaustible supply of far-
right pretenders—persons who claim
they will be for protections for pre-
existing conditions, only to turn
around quickly and fight to take them
away. So it ought to be clear that this
isn’t a routine nomination. Chad
Readler thinks insurance companies
should be able to deny care with people
with preexisting conditions.
Colleagues, if you vote for Chad
Readler, you are casting a vote to en-
dorse the position of turning back the
clock and rolling back time to the days
when insurance companies could dis-
criminate against those with a pre-
existing condition.
If Mr. Readler’s history began and
ended with the legal brief attacking
preexisting protections, in my view,
that would be disqualifying, but there
is more.
He signed the Trump Justice Depart-
ment legal brief green-lighting dis-
crimination against LGBTQ Americans
in the Masterpiece Cakeshop case. He
defended the transgender military ban.
He defended the Muslim ban. He de-
fended family separation at the border.
I am just going to close by way of
saying that I think this nomination is
a byproduct of what happens when the
Senate abandons a long-held practice
of consulting with home State Sen-
ators on nominees.
Since the early 1900s, it has been a
tradition for the Judiciary Committee
to seek input from Senators on judicial
nominees from their home States.
Lower court nominees traditionally
don’t move forward until those home
State Senators give the green light.
They do so with what are called blue
slips.
In this case, the nominee is from
Ohio, and the majority leader, MITCH
MCCONNELL, is in the process of blow-
ing up that tradition and moving this
nominee over Senator BROWN’s objec-
tion.
In 2009, when Republicans were in the
minority, MITCH MCCONNELL and all of
his colleagues fought to protect the
blue-slip tradition. They wrote every-
body in sight to protect it—President
Obama, Senator LEAHY.
They wrote: ‘‘We hope your adminis-
tration will consult with us as it con-
siders possible nominations to the Fed-
eral courts from our states.’’
So they made it very clear a few
years ago that they strongly supported
this, but here they are blowing up a
century-old tradition of bipartisanship
on judicial nominees after defending it.
This issue came to a head last year,
when the Senate took up the nomina-
tion of Ryan Bounds to the Ninth Cir-
cuit, despite objections from my Or-
egon colleague, Senator MERKLEY, and
me.
We were able to block that nomina-
tion. It was the right thing to do. This
was a nominee who we felt had not
been straight with our judicial selec-
tion committee. As Oregon’s senior
Senator, I had been dealing with these
nominees—Democrats and Repub-
licans—for years, but our judicial se-
lection commission had never felt so
misled. Senator MERKLEY and I led the
fight, and we were successful in defeat-
ing that nominee.
Now the White House still wants, ap-
parently, this body to act as a
rubberstamp and just approve one
nominee after another without any
questions.
I want my colleagues to understand
that by moving this nomination for-
ward, they are going to be responsible
for creating a new reality—in effect
hot-wiring the process for considering
judicial nominees in a way that will
take us back again to a more partisan
approach.
The bipartisan blue-slip process has
worked for over a century. What is
going on now would end it. This is a
breach of bipartisan protocol that has
further driven the judiciary to a par-
tisan extreme.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.009 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1678 March 6, 2019
Following these actions by the
Trump administration and the major-
ity, I seriously question, if you con-
tinue this, whether the current struc-
ture of the courts is going to survive.
Colleagues, Chad Readler does not de-
serve a lifetime appointment to the
Sixth Circuit. The moment he put his
name on the Trump administration’s
absurd legal attack on protections for
preexisting conditions, he revealed
that he was going to be partisan all the
way and, on top of that, that he was
going to exercise poor judgment. He
has been a defender of discrimination
in multiple forms. He has defended the
indefensible abuse of vulnerable mi-
grant families at our border. At this
point, he cannot claim to be close to
the standard of impartiality and
evenhandedness that a Senator ought
to expect from any judicial nominee.
I intend to vote against Chad
Readler. I urge my colleagues to join
me.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). The Senator from New Jer-
sey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President,
today I rise to oppose the nomination
of Chad Readler to the Sixth Circuit
Court of Appeals.
I remember the 2018 campaign sea-
son, when so many Republicans sud-
denly became the world’s most pas-
sionate defenders of patients with pre-
existing conditions. They told voters
that never ever could they even imag-
ine doing anything that would weaken
the protections that stop health insur-
ance companies from discriminating
against people with preexisting condi-
tions.
Whether they be breast cancer sur-
vivors or children born with birth de-
fects or any of the tens of millions of
Americans who manage chronic condi-
tions like diabetes or depression or
high blood pressure, well, Americans
are about to find out whether my
American colleagues meant a word of
what they said on the campaign trail.
Americans will soon see whether Re-
publicans stand up for patients with
preexisting conditions or vote to con-
firm Chad Readler to the Ohio Sixth
Circuit Court.
This nominee’s record of threatening
patients with preexisting conditions is
not up for debate. Chad Readler was
the mastermind behind the Trump ad-
ministration’s effort to strip away the
core of the Affordable Care Act—the
principle that health insurance compa-
nies cannot deny coverage or kick a pa-
tient off their policy just because of
their medical history.
On the campaign trail, President
Trump spoke of protecting Americans
with preexisting conditions, but we
now know that was just another lie.
Apparently, it wasn’t enough for this
administration to stop defending the
Affordable Care Act in court; the Presi-
dent sought to attack it in court. Ini-
tially, the Trump administration
struggled to find someone at the De-
partment of Justice willing to take on
this cause. In fact, three separate ca-
reer attorneys at the Justice Depart-
ment refused to argue the administra-
tion’s position in court. One employee
even resigned.
Chad Readler, the nominee we are
voting on today, was more than happy
to take on this cruel and unjust cause.
He became the chief architect of the
Trump administration’s legal brief,
challenging the very constitutionality
of the Affordable Care Act’s protec-
tions for people with preexisting condi-
tions. In other words, Chad Readler’s
legal brief took the administration’s
effort to sabotage the Affordable Care
Act to a whole new level, threatening
to bring us back to a time when health
insurance companies didn’t have to
cover cancer survivors, or individuals
with substance abuse disorder, or any-
one who has ever faced, ever confronted
a health challenge in their life. How
does President Trump reward Chad
Readler for leading this assault on pa-
tients and their families? Well, the day
after he filed this reckless and morally
repugnant legal brief, the President
nominated him to serve on the Sixth
Circuit.
Now, let me tell you, I spent a lot of
time crisscrossing New Jersey over the
past year, and I don’t think I met a sin-
gle constituent who came up to me and
said: Senator, what my family really
needs you to do is once again let health
insurance companies deny us care. On
the contrary, I heard from and con-
tinue to hear from New Jerseyans who
depend on these protections. They
can’t even believe this is still an issue.
Last summer, I spoke with a woman
from Highland Park named Ann
Vardeman who told me she was diag-
nosed with PTSD after surviving a sex-
ual assault. Ann told me that health
insurers shouldn’t be able to ‘‘charge
me more for something that is a hor-
rible thing that happens to millions of
people in this country through abso-
lutely no fault of their own.’’ Indeed,
without the Affordable Care Act, there
would be no Federal health protections
for survivors of sexual violence like
her.
Perhaps one of my constituents—
Anne Zavalick of Middlesex, NJ—said
it best when she wrote about her battle
against bladder cancer. She wrote:
It is crucial that I continue to receive
scans to make sure there is no recurrence of
the cancer. . . . If I don’t have coverage for
preexisting conditions, I will go bankrupt.
. . . Then I will probably die. So, yeah, this
is kinda super important to me, personally.
It should be personal to all of us. Ev-
eryone in this body should take it per-
sonally when this administration at-
tacks protections that 130 million
Americans rely on for their health and
financial security.
People remember what it was like be-
fore the Affordable Care Act, and they
don’t want to go backward. They re-
member how a woman could be denied
coverage for maternity care or charged
higher premiums simply for being a
woman. Today, being a woman is no
longer a preexisting condition. They
remember how infants born with heart
deformities could hit lifetime caps
within days of being born. Today, fami-
lies don’t have to worry about lifetime
caps. They remember how cancer sur-
vivors and Americans with chronic
conditions like diabetes or asthma
lived in fear of being denied coverage
or dropped from their policies at a mo-
ment’s notice.
Today, patients are protected from
discrimination, but they will not be if
the courts side with Chad Readler’s
shameful arguments on behalf of this
administration.
This issue is personal for millions of
Americans across our country—from
3.8 million in New Jersey, to 4.3 million
in Georgia, to 4.8 million in Ohio, Mr.
Readler’s home State. All told, 130 mil-
lion Americans with preexisting condi-
tions may suffer the consequences of
Mr. Readler’s assault on the Affordable
Care Act. These Americans are not
Democrats or Republicans or Independ-
ents; they are human beings with a
right to access affordable, quality
healthcare.
Does this Senate really want to re-
ward someone largely responsible for
endangering the coverage our constitu-
ents depend on with a lifetime appoint-
ment to the Sixth Circuit Court of Ap-
peals? I sure hope not. That is not the
kind of judgement we want on any
court.
Last fall, we heard a lot of talk from
Republicans about protecting people
with preexisting conditions. We know
that actions speak louder than words,
and it is action that we need right now.
We need every Member of this body to
stand up for the right of all Americans
to get quality healthcare coverage. We
need every Member of this body to
stand up for the proposition that
Americans cannot be discriminated
against in their healthcare coverage
because of a preexisting condition. We
need every Member of this body to vote
against the nomination of Chad
Readler for the Sixth Circuit Court of
Appeals.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DECLARATION OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, if you
ask the Trump administration about
their highest spending priority in
terms of their budget, it is pretty
clear—national defense. Over and over,
the President has asked and Congress
has voted for more money for Amer-
ica’s military for operations, readiness,
and investment across the board. I
don’t think there is any question that
the votes reflect the bipartisan com-
mitment to our military and the belief
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:51 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.011 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1679
March 6, 2019
that spending dollars today to train
our men and women, to equip them
properly, and to make sure they live in
the best circumstances is in the best
interests of America’s future. We have
done that year in and year out, but this
year we are facing quite a challenge
from the Trump administration.
This notion of building a $5.7 billion
wall is going to be paid for at the ex-
pense of the U.S. military. It is the
military that will end up surrendering
projects that are underway and invest-
ments in our troops that are underway
so that the President can build this al-
mighty wall of his that was supposed
to be paid for by the Mexicans, right? I
heard him say that—only 100 times, but
I heard him say it. Now he is off of
that. It will not be the Mexicans pay-
ing for the President’s wall. It will be
our military.
So we ought to be very honest about
the vote that is coming up. President
Trump has decided to declare an emer-
gency and to say that regardless of the
Constitution’s giving authority to Con-
gress to appropriate funds, he wants to
take on that responsibility to decide
where funds will be spent. That will be
challenged in court, I am sure, as it
should be. But for those Members of
the Senate who in a few days will be
asked to vote, I would like them to re-
flect on two things. Their vote sup-
porting the President’s approach is ba-
sically giving the authority of this
branch of the government away to the
Executive. Make no mistake, that is at
the heart of it, and a number of Repub-
lican Senators—a handful—have stood
up and said: We wouldn’t have allowed
this under a Democratic President;
why would we allow it under a Repub-
lican President?
Yet others have said they are pre-
pared to look the other way. If this
President is popular back in their
home States, the Constitution comes
in second. I think that is a mistake.
Secondly, though, Members of the
Senate, before they cast this vote giv-
ing this President the authority to
take money out of our military to
build this wall, ought to stop and take
a look at where the money is coming
from within our military.
I am in the fortunate position to be
the ranking member on the Defense
Appropriations Subcommittee. It is the
biggest appropriations job on Capitol
Hill, and I am happy to have Senator
SHELBY, a Republican from Alabama,
as my chairman of the subcommittee. I
am the ranking Democrat on that com-
mittee. We have the biggest appropria-
tion bill when it comes to discre-
tionary spending—some 60 percent of
the Federal discretionary budget, and
we know how important it is to get it
right. America never wants to come in
second in a war, and we certainly never
want to be in a position where we are
mistreating or ignoring the needs of
our men and women in uniform.
Each year we go through their re-
quests and try to make sure the most
important things are funded. The mili-
tary will tell us: There are certain
things that are essential and timely,
and we need you to spend money on
them. And we have responded, not just
in the subcommittee and in the full
committee but in the Senate and in the
House.
Now comes the President and says:
Not so, we are going to take the money
that we told you was so critically im-
portant this year and spend it on the
Mexican border to extend the wall—$5.7
billion worth of it.
As I have met with the heads of the
branches of our military service, we
have asked basic questions. I did that
yesterday to several generals and Sec-
retaries who came before me. I said:
Has the administration sat down with
you in terms of your branch of the
military and told you where they are
going to take the money to build the
wall?
Consistently, the answer is no, they
don’t know. We are days or weeks away
from that money being taken.
What we have done is to prepare a
chart through the Military Construc-
tion Subcommittee, which is chaired
by Senator BOOZMAN, the Republican
from Arkansas, and Senator SCHATZ, a
Democrat from Hawaii. I asked them:
Where are the unobligated projects?
These are projects that have been au-
thorized but haven’t been started. They
may have had basic engineering and
preliminary estimates done and so
forth. They are ready to let a contract.
The money is sitting there ready to
move forward, and these are the
projects that are on the target list for
President Trump when it comes to cut-
ting the military to pay for his border
wail.
We have a long list here. The list in-
cludes almost every State—certainly,
every State that has anything near a
military facility. The State of Illinois
has several key projects that we con-
sider to be essential. There is one in
Peoria, IL. It is a fire crash and rescue
station that needs to be upgraded for
the safety of the men and women who
work there and those who use that im-
portant airport, and there are other
things within our State.
As I said, hardly any State is omitted
from this list. Any Senator who is vot-
ing to give this President the authority
to cut military projects and to stop the
spending on military projects should
realize that it may come home and re-
quire an explanation.
The Presiding Officer is from the
State of Oklahoma. I tell him that four
of the projects are in Oklahoma that
are on the target list—the hit list—for
cuts if the President decides to cut
those projects or Illinois projects to
fund this wall.
I have two or three specific ones that
I would like to highlight today because
they came to my attention. I thought
it would be a shame—in fact, it would
be just plain wrong—for us to cut the
spending on these projects. Let me tell
you about one of them that struck me
first.
The Commandant of the U.S. Marine
Corps came to see me. He is a no-non-
sense man. You can understand that if
you come to be a four-star general in
the Marine Corps, you get down to
business in a hurry. We talked about
some of the damage done at the pre-
mier training facilities for the U.S.
Marine Corps. Last year, Hurricane
Florence tore through the State of
North Carolina. The Marine Corps hap-
pened to be one of the victims of that
violent storm. The hurricane damaged
roughly 800 buildings on base at Camp
Lejeune, New River, and Cherry Point.
Here is an overhead shot that is not
as graphic because it was taken after
the hurricane, but the blue coverings
on the tops of these roofs are an indica-
tion of the structural damage that was
done to these buildings.
As I mentioned, 800 buildings on
these bases were impacted and dam-
aged by this hurricane. This overhead
shot taken last month indicates the
work that needs to be done before these
buildings can be successfully inhabited
by the Marine Corps and their families.
I have a photo of the Camp Lejeune
chapel, too. There is not much left of
it. That is an indication of the damage
that was done there. This is a worker
walking outside of the chapel. That is
what is left of the chapel. Insulation is
falling from the ceiling. There is no
good reason to prolong the cleanup.
The Marine Corps said they want to
get down to work as quickly as possible
and restore this training facility for
the good of the Marine Corps and for
our Nation, but this is on the hit list
for the President for the wall at the
border.
What else needs attention this year?
The U.S. Air Force needs $750 million
to begin cleaning up Tyndall Air Force
Base, which was leveled by Hurricane
Michael. The Army leaders need $1 bil-
lion for everything from more training
to jump-starting new technology to
keep our troops safe and effective in
the battlefield. The Navy has asked for
hundreds of millions of additional dol-
lars for unexpected ship maintenance.
We can’t afford to shortchange the men
and women in the Navy. We saw what
happened not that long ago with the
fatal accidents involving Navy maneu-
vers and exercises. We never want that
to happen again.
The National Guard has 2,100 per-
sonnel on the border, but it is starting
to run low in its pay account. So it was
hoping some of these unobligated
funds, at least a small part of them,
might be used so they can continue
their border mission.
Unless the Department of Defense
finds $150 to $300 million this year, the
National Guard will have to cut short
its summer trainings in all 50 States.
My subcommittee has identified al-
most $5 billion in military priorities
that need attention today, but after
President Trump takes half of that—
$2.5 billion to pay for his border wall—
which priorities will get cut?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.013 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1680 March 6, 2019
The President has also decided to cut
or delay $3.6 billion in military con-
struction projects. The President
might not think these projects are
timely or important, but it was just
weeks or months ago when the admin-
istration said just the opposite and
asked Congress to appropriate money—
examples: $800 million for essential
training facilities like the National
Guard readiness centers, simulators
and firing ranges in the States of Alas-
ka, Arizona, Colorado, and Montana, to
name a few; $1.4 billion worth of main-
tenance-related projects such as air-
craft hangars and vehicle maintenance
shops in Arkansas, Indiana, Missouri,
and Oklahoma, not to mention many
other States affected; $1 billion worth
of projects for medical and dental care
facilities for the men and women in
uniform; schools for military families,
military barracks, and other essential
facilities in Arizona, Missouri, Texas,
and beyond.
Fort Campbell, KY, needs a new mid-
dle school for military children. The
current building dates back to 1967 and
is in serious disrepair. We were told
that was a priority, but it could be
stopped, cut, and eliminated if we are
not careful to build this wall.
Also on this list is a new rifle range
at Parris Island, SC, a training base for
20,000 new Marines every single year.
There is a new training center at
Fort Bragg, NC, to provide top-notch
training and prevent injuries among
our Special Forces. They are using an
old warehouse right now, and they
want a modern facility. If it were your
son or daughter serving our military at
Fort Bragg, you would give them noth-
ing less. The list goes on and on.
Are we really going to tell our mili-
tary—the very people who are pro-
tecting and defending this Nation—
that the needs they have identified and
we have appropriated money for are
going to be put on hold because Presi-
dent Trump made a campaign promise
that he can’t keep—that the Mexicans
were going to build the wall?
Republicans and Democrats in the
Senate should join the House in reject-
ing the President’s emergency declara-
tion. The Senate should reject any ef-
fort by the President to take money
from our troops, from the military—
from the Marines, from the Air Force,
the Navy, the Army, the National
Guard units—to build this wall. We
may not agree on much, but we used to
agree on fundamental things. The De-
partment of Defense was a priority.
The men and women serving there de-
serve not only our gratitude but the in-
vestment in their training, operations,
readiness, and a way of life that shows
our respect for what they are doing in
service to this country. We can do
nothing less.
When we face the vote—quite likely a
week from today or tomorrow—on
whether we agree with the House, I
hope that the Senate, Democrats and
Republicans, will put the national de-
fense of our Nation first and our mili-
tary first and vote no on President
Trump’s effort to extend this emer-
gency designation and to try to assume
constitutional responsibilities beyond
what is already written.
We are a branch of government—arti-
cle I of the Constitution. Our responsi-
bility is to appropriate funds. When we
give away that responsibility, we walk
away from the reason we were elected.
I hope that Members on both sides of
the aisle will consider that as we face
this historic vote.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
NOMINATION OF CHAD A. READLER
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise in
opposition to the nomination of Mr.
Chad Readler to the U.S. Sixth Circuit
Court.
There are certainly many reasons to
oppose Mr. Readler’s nomination. His
track record paints a very clear picture
of what he values and what he does not.
Mr. Readler fought to uphold President
Trump’s travel ban that targets people
because of their religion. He has argued
in favor of a business turning away
customers simply because they are
LGBT. He worked to unravel programs
made during the past administration
that would ensure low-income workers
would actually receive their hard-
earned benefits. Of the things that Mr.
Readler values, protecting Americans
from wrongful acts of discrimination is
clearly not among them.
Yet it still remains difficult for me
to understand why Mr. Readler—and
any of my colleagues who choose to ad-
vance his nomination today—would
support going back to an era when
health insurance companies are al-
lowed to discriminate against people
with preexisting health conditions. I
have heard plenty of my colleagues
from across the aisle make public
statements in favor of preexisting cov-
erage protections. That is probably be-
cause they hear, like I do, from people
all across my State who fear losing
coverage as a result of having that pre-
existing condition.
What are preexisting conditions?
Well, it is things like diabetes, asthma,
or even high blood pressure, and they
are a reality for over 4 million
Michiganders. This range of fairly com-
mon to fairly complex conditions is ex-
perienced by one in every four children,
over half of the female population, and
84 percent of adults in their late fifties
and in their sixties.
Today, there is a broad consensus
that we need a Federal law in place
that prevents insurance companies
from denying coverage or jacking up
prices based on someone’s health sta-
tus, their age, or their gender. We have
a law on the books right now that pro-
tects people with preexisting condi-
tions, but this law must be defended,
not undermined.
I worked hard to pass this important
coverage during my first term in the
Congress, and I have fought to preserve
it every day since then. Although this
fight has been successful so far, it is
based on the premise that the laws
passed and upheld by Congress will be
defended in court. Yet the Department
of Justice Civil Division, under Mr. Re-
adler’s leadership, decided not to do so.
His actions fit into the story of the
Trump administration’s ongoing par-
tisan efforts to sabotage our healthcare
system and dismantle strategies that
would lower premiums and expand
quality, affordability, and coverage,
generally. The President is constantly
looking for ways that he can sidestep
Congress and attack legislation that
has brought health insurance to over 20
million Americans and cut Michigan’s
uninsured rate in half.
We should not be advancing a Federal
court nominee whose disregard for the
rule of law comes at the expense of the
health and the financial stability of
millions of Americans. I urge my col-
leagues to vote no on Mr. Readler’s
nomination and his track record of pro-
moting discrimination.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ap-
preciate my colleague from Iowa, Sen-
ator ERNST, for organizing this oppor-
tunity for several of us in the Senate
to discuss the Green New Deal and to
do it this week.
To put it mildly, the Green New Deal
is ambitious. To frame it more accu-
rately, it is an unworkable, pie-in-the-
sky attempt to reshape every aspect of
everyday Americans’ lives.
First, let me say that I am proud of
my record in successfully advancing
the availability and affordability of re-
newable energy. Many have called me
the father of the Wind Energy Incen-
tives Act. I suppose after—what?—
probably 26 years, that makes me the
grandfather of the Wind Energy Incen-
tives Act. My legislation sought to give
this alternative energy source the abil-
ity to compete against traditional, fi-
nite energy sources. At that time, we
never knew about fracking for natural
gas and for oil. We thought we were
going to be completely dependent upon
Saudi Arabia for our energy. Now we
know that is not true, but back in 1992
and before, we did everything to think
up every alternative energy we could in
order to be less dependent upon the
Saudis. One of those acts that I was in-
volved in was wind energy.
The wind energy bill—now law—has
been extremely successful. Iowa sup-
plies more than 35 percent of its own
electricity from wind. We were the first
State in the country to generate more
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:51 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.014 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1681
March 6, 2019
than one-third of its electricity from
wind. Wind energy employs approxi-
mately 7,000 Iowans, and the nearly
3,000 wind turbines in Iowa generate
millions of dollars in economic activ-
ity. So I want to make it very clear
that I am speaking as someone who has
a very successful track record of ad-
vancing clean energy.
Think about what the Green New
Deal is about. Presumably, they don’t
know we have been this successful be-
cause the Green New Deal, on the other
hand, is nothing more than a grab bag
of vague aspirations. In fact, the Green
New Deal was initially introduced in
the House and Senate by its authors as
a nonbinding, symbolic resolution—in
other words, a lot of hot air. That
means that even if it were to pass as
introduced, it would not become law. I
am glad that Senate Majority Leader
MCCONNELL reintroduced the text in a
format that could become law so we
Senators could go on record as to
whether we would want to make this
the policy of the United States.
It would be one thing if the policy
and goals remained on topic—namely,
reducing pollution and cutting our Na-
tion’s carbon emissions. Those are wor-
thy goals. Yet the resolution reads like
a utopian manifesto that seeks to im-
plement every liberal policy priority
from the past many decades.
We have seen extreme leftwing agen-
das that rely on the power of the State
and that usurp the role of individuals.
How will those policies turn out? We
have plenty examples. Look at the
former Soviet Union. Look at Cuba
over the last 60 years. Look at what
has happened to Venezuela in the last
15 years. It has gone from the richest
country in South America to a des-
titute country in which they die of
malnutrition and people can’t get med-
icine. In more instances than in the
three I have just given you, these uto-
pian ideas never turn out very well.
Sure, the Green New Deal includes
goals that are related to energy and
the environment, but for the most
part, they are wholly unrealistic. For
example, their calling for the upgrad-
ing of all existing buildings or, in an-
other statement, their meeting 100 per-
cent of the power demands of the
United States through clean, renew-
able, zero-emission energy sources—all
within the next 10 years—is simply not
feasible.
Of course, no concrete proposals are
put forward on how this is to be
achieved. The Green New Deal just
leaves us scratching our heads think-
ing about how all this would work.
There are a lot of questions. Would it
require the government to mandate
that every building owner in the
United States make costly building im-
provements to meet national standards
set here in Washington, DC?
Another question is, would every
homeowner have to submit to govern-
ment inspection to ensure that his or
her home meets the standards dictated
by the government?
Another question is, what govern-
ment expenditures would have to be
made, assuming all of this is even tech-
nologically possible, to go from about
17 percent of U.S. electricity genera-
tion coming from renewables today to
a total 100 percent in 10 years?
The last question I will raise is, are
the backers of the Green New Deal
willing to support nuclear energy as a
means to reach their goal? On this last
point, I would conclude that a sum-
mary of the Green New Deal initially
put out by the chief author in the
House suggests a lack of support for
nuclear energy.
As I have said before in my remarks
today, I have been a leader on renew-
able energy production for decades, not
just wind, as I have said, but geo-
thermal, solar, biofuels, et cetera. So I
am not just talking about being the au-
thor of the wind energy production tax
credit.
During my leadership of the Senate
Finance Committee in the 2000s, when I
was chairman there, I oversaw the es-
tablishment, the enhancement, and re-
newal of numerous tax incentives that
promote everything from wind and
solar to renewable fuels like biodiesel,
to energy-efficient homes, buildings,
and appliances.
Unlike the unrealistic goals of the
Green New Deal, these initiatives I just
read are not only law, but they are
real, proven, bipartisan actions that I
shepherded into law to make the
United States more energy independent
and also, at the same time, improve
our environment. Unfortunately, many
of these key energy incentives I just
mentioned are currently expired, and
some of them have been expired for
more than a year.
We had a real opportunity to extend
these energy incentives as part of the
appropriations deal reached earlier this
month, but that was ultimately
blocked by House Democrats—probably
some of the same people who are pro-
moting the Green New Deal. They seem
overly focused on the lofty goals of the
Green New Deal or, as Speaker PELOSI
called the Green New Deal, ‘‘The green
dream or whatever they call it, no one
knows what it is.’’
The House Democrats could not be
bothered a month ago with extensions
of existing and successful provisions
that incentivize the type of investment
they claim to have backed and not only
tend to incentivize, actually have
incentivized alternative energy over
the last two and one-half decades—pro-
visions that support millions of jobs for
people who are actually willing to
work.
Perhaps this just shows that the
Green New Deal is less about tackling
energy and environmental issues and
more about remaking America into a
dreamy new progressive paradise.
No sector of the economy is left un-
checked by the Green New Deal—make
no mistake about thinking otherwise.
The authors of the Green New Deal are
intent on reshaping every aspect of
American life through a ‘‘national, so-
cial, industrial, and economic mobili-
zation,’’ and those last six words are in
quotations.
Shaping American life through ‘‘na-
tional, social, industrial, and economic
mobilization’’ that is eerily reminis-
cent of the 5-year plans of the former
Soviet Union or of the Great Leap For-
ward under Chairman Mao of China.
Even the family farmer is not spared
from its grand plans. The Green New
Dealers want to remove what they call
pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
in agriculture through sustainable
farming and building a more sustain-
able food system that ensures universal
access to healthy food. Now, I am not
against farmers taking actions to pre-
vent soil erosion and minimizing pollu-
tion because we farmers do that al-
ready. We have been doing it for dec-
ades.
The recently passed farm bill invests
more in conservation programs than
any farm bill before. I trust that farm-
ers know more and have more common
sense about how to take care of their
land than some bureaucrat in Wash-
ington, DC, or politicians from New
York City. We all know Washington,
DC, is an island surrounded by reality.
So you put forth legislation like this,
and it is just like 535 Members of Con-
gress have all the knowledge in the
world to tell 310 million other people
what they ought to be doing.
I don’t believe all those smarts rest
in the Congress of the United States or
even the bureaucracy of this govern-
ment. Over the last several years, when
it comes to farming, we have seen
farmers readily adopt the use of cover
crops to prevent nutrient runoff and to
sequester carbon in the soil through
what we call minimum or no tillage.
Today farmers may go down as the
first group in history to leave the land
better than they found it for future
generations. Moreover, every indica-
tion is that these calls for sustainable
farming and a sustainable food system
go well beyond farmers being good
stewards of our natural resources. It
appears to be intent on changing every-
thing from how we farm to what we
farm.
A fact sheet released by the House
author, shortly after introduction,
made this perfectly clear. It notes a de-
sire—now, listen to this—it notes a de-
sire to rid the planet of methane gas-
emitting cows. In case the authors are
unaware, all cows and all people emit
methane. It is part of the natural di-
gestive process. The only way to stop
these emissions is to ban animal agri-
culture. That proposal couldn’t be
more disconnected or out of touch with
Americans.
That is what makes the taxpayers
feel there is nobody in Washington, DC,
who has any common sense, but don’t
worry. According to the authors of the
Green New Deal in the House, ‘‘It is not
to say you get rid of agriculture or
force everybody to go vegan.’’ This
doesn’t instill much confidence in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.016 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1682 March 6, 2019
farmer about the real intentions be-
hind the Green New Deal.
I am amazed by the scope of what the
authors would have the government
impose on the American people.
I will end by noting that I am inter-
ested in working with my colleagues on
sensible policies to secure our energy
independence and improve our environ-
ment, but I fear this will not be pos-
sible as long as my Democratic col-
leagues remain intent on handing over
the country to the government to re-
make it in Washington, DC’s, image.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. I ask unani-
mous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF CHAD A. READLER
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I rise to speak in opposition to the
nomination of Chad Readler to the
Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals.
This nomination, if confirmed, would
be advanced without the support of one
of his home State Senators, and it de-
liberately ignores Senate precedent
that has historically respected Sen-
ators’ ability to identify nominees that
best fit the needs of their State.
In his current position at the Depart-
ment of Justice, Chad Readler led the
legal briefs for some of the Depart-
ment’s most extreme positions.
He defended President Trump’s travel
ban, led efforts to end DACA, supported
the inclusion of a citizenship question
on the 2020 census, suggested that the
structure of the CFPB was unconstitu-
tional, and argued that businesses
should be able to refuse services to
same-sex couples.
Mr. Readler also led the DOJ’s legal
brief for the Texas v. U.S. lawsuit, ar-
guing against the Affordable Care Act’s
protections for people with preexisting
conditions, even while three other ca-
reer attorneys at the DOJ refused to do
so.
Think about that for a second. This
nominee took up his pen and drafted a
legal opinion at the Department of Jus-
tice that stated it was fine for his De-
partment not to defend the law—a law
that protects millions of Americans’
access to the critical healthcare they
need.
If that weren’t enough to shock the
conscience, Mr. Readler’s nomination
to the Sixth Circuit judgeship was an-
nounced the same day the brief was
filed.
Is that a coincidence? Maybe, but
since three other career lawyers at the
Department of Justice resigned rather
than draft this brief and violate their
duty to the law, I think it is fairly ob-
vious.
This administration has made it
crystal clear that Mr. Readler was cho-
sen because of his willingness to dis-
mantle the ACA and completely elimi-
nate critical protections that ensure
seniors, kids, and families in Nevada
and across this country are able to get
health insurance, regardless of whether
they have a previous medical condi-
tion. For many Americans, denying
vital healthcare protections and access
to care is truly a matter of life and
death.
President Trump and Republican
leaders have promised to sabotage our
healthcare from day one, and this nom-
ination is another example in a long
line of legislation, nominations, and
Executive actions aimed at ripping
away healthcare coverage from hard-
working families in Nevada and across
the country.
The Affordable Care Act is, quite
simply, the law of the land. Its patient
protections have wide bipartisan sup-
port, as evidenced by Congress’s inabil-
ity to pass ACA repeal. Since its incep-
tion, over 400,000 Nevadans have gained
healthcare coverage, including 158,000
children. Tens of million more Ameri-
cans across the country have gained
access to affordable health insurance,
prescription drug coverage, mental
health services, and preventive care.
The ACA’s provisions have also guar-
anteed that over 1.2 million Nevadans
with preexisting conditions will not be
denied coverage because insurance
companies deem them ‘‘too risky’’ to
cover.
We cannot go back to the day when
women, veterans, cancer survivors, and
children with disabilities were charged
more for healthcare or were flatout de-
nied coverage.
Americans need us to work together
to defend their access to quality and
affordable healthcare, not just in Ne-
vada but across this country. Yet Mr.
Readler has shown us that he would in-
stead take us backward, unravelling
more than a decade of progress and
wreaking potential havoc on our econ-
omy.
This nominee has demonstrated that
he is willing to carry water for this
President’s political interests and not
serve in the best interest of Americans.
I oppose Mr. Readler’s nomination
because Americans deserve a judge who
respects the rule of law and interprets
the law based on statute, not the polit-
ical needs of this or any administra-
tion.
I oppose this nominee because Senate
Republican leaders are trying to jam
him through without the support of
one of his home State Senators, which
is a direct attack on our constitutional
role as U.S. Senators to advise and con-
sent.
I want my colleagues to know that a
vote in support of his nomination is a
vote in support of unleashing chaos on
the American health system, elimi-
nating preexisting condition protec-
tions, and one that would result in mil-
lions more uninsured.
Mr. Readler is a dangerous choice,
who has a long track record of sup-
porting the most extreme legal posi-
tions, which makes him unfit to sit on
any court, much less one whose deci-
sions will impact millions of Ameri-
cans.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I rise
today to join over 10 colleagues to
speak in opposition to the so-called
Green New Deal.
Merriam-Webster defines a deal as ‘‘a
bargain’’ or ‘‘an agreement for mutual
advantage.’’ By its name, you would
think that Americans are going to de-
rive some benefit from it, but this
couldn’t be further from the truth.
The truth is that this proposal is a
raw deal for America, especially our
rural communities.
As many of you know, every month I
give out a Squeal Award, which draws
attention to outrageous examples of
wasteful and reckless spending of tax-
payer money.
With a $93 trillion—trillion with a
‘‘t’’—pricetag, which is roughly $10
trillion more than the entire recorded
spending of the U.S. Government since
1789, this month’s Squeal Award goes
to the Green New Deal, which, again, I
think is kind of a raw deal.
Just think about that number—$93
trillion. To fund this radical govern-
ment takeover, every American family
would have to pay about $65,000 annu-
ally. Folks, that is more than most
Iowa households bring in in a year.
The ideas presented in the Green New
Deal used to garner support only from
the furthest fringes of the political
left—the furthest fringes. Concepts like
rebuilding every building in the coun-
try, outlawing fossil fuels, and guaran-
teed jobs would never have made their
way into mainstream discourse just a
few years ago. Now our Democratic col-
leagues are trying to make them main-
stream.
In fact, 100 of the 282 Democratic
Members of the House and Senate have
signed on to support this plan. This is
the creep of socialism into America.
If you work in a part of the energy
industry that has fallen out of favor,
your job has no place in the country.
That is what is envisioned by the
Democrats.
The Green New Deal states that one
of its goals is to meet ‘‘100 percent of
the power demand in the U.S. through
clean, renewable, and zero-emission en-
ergy sources.’’
Don’t get me wrong, folks—don’t get
me wrong—increasing our reliance on
renewables is a good goal and one that
I support, but we have to be realistic
about our current energy capabilities
and our needs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.017 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1683
March 6, 2019
Private sector investment and inno-
vation, coupled with government sup-
port and incentives, have contributed
to significant advances in renewable
energy.
I am proud to say that my home
State of Iowa is one of the Nation’s
leaders in renewable energy, with wind
providing nearly 40 percent of our elec-
tricity. That is more than any other
State in the Nation. With more wind
coming online, coal went from pro-
ducing 76 percent of our electricity in
2008 to 45 percent of it in 2017.
I would note that this transition to-
ward renewables happened largely as a
result of State policies and community
engagement, not heavyhanded govern-
ment regulation.
Another one of the ‘‘goals’’ I find
most interesting in this unrealistic
proposal is that of providing ‘‘guaran-
teed jobs.’’ What may be lost on the
Democrats is that the best guaranteed
jobs program is not housed in a govern-
ment building; it is a strong economy
like the one we are living in right
now—not one bogged down by job-kill-
ing regulations and punitive tax
breaks.
If you want proof of this, look no fur-
ther than Iowa. Our unemployment sits
at a low 2.4 percent, and we have over
63,000 job openings and about 40,000
folks looking for work. That is more
job openings than there are people ac-
tually looking for jobs.
Lastly, I would point out that as a
part of this proposal, our Democratic
colleagues want to overhaul transpor-
tation systems in the United States. If
you live in places like New York City,
you can walk to a grocery store, but in
rural communities like my hometown
of Red Oak, IA, it can take you 30 min-
utes to drive to a Walmart. I am not
talking about 30 minutes of driving to
a Walmart in city traffic; I am talking
about 30 minutes of driving, probably
not meeting any cars at all on the
road.
Everything from combines to trac-
tors and to the trucks that transport
our grains to market would be im-
pacted. The Green New Deal is unreal-
istic and would unfairly impact rural
communities across this country.
Folks, we have a clear choice. We can
continue to support rural America and
pro-growth economic policies that
boost our economy and create jobs or
we can allow socialist fantasies like
the Green New Deal to creep in, take
hold, bankrupt our Nation, and dev-
astate our rural communities.
I yield the floor to my colleague Sen-
ator CORNYN.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, will the
Senator from Iowa yield to a question?
I am interested in whether she be-
lieves that climate change is real,
caused by humans, and requires Fed-
eral action.
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I will
yield.
I do believe that climate change is
real, and we have seen climate change
for centuries, Senator SCHATZ. So, for
my colleague from Hawaii, we have
seen climate change; there is no doubt
about that.
But what I am debating here today
and what we are speaking on is right
here: $93 trillion, and we want to get
rid of all fossil fuels within 10 years,
folks—10 years. We can’t drive a com-
bine. We can’t harvest our food. For
heaven’s sake, we have to be realistic.
My home State of Iowa has taken ad-
vantage of ingenuity and innovation
and developed a process where wind en-
ergy contributes 40 percent of our elec-
tricity.
Now, with the new wind energy field
that is being put in by MidAmerican
Energy in the western part of the
State, where I am from, in the next 2
to 3 years, 80 percent of our electricity
will come from wind energy, and it
didn’t take big government or social-
ism to put it into place.
So thank you very much.
I yield the floor to Senator CORNYN.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President.
Mr. SCHATZ. Excuse me, Mr. Presi-
dent. May I ask a followup question
through the Chair?
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, regular
order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa has yielded the floor to
Senator CORNYN.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President.
Mr. SCHATZ. I just would like to get
clarification. She did say climate
change is real, but my question is
whether—
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, regular
order.
Mr. SCHATZ.—manmade climate
change is real, and I did not get an an-
swer.
Mr. CORNYN. Regular order.
Mr. SCHATZ. If she’s unwilling to
answer that question, I understand.
Mr. CORNYN. Regular order, Mr.
President.
Mr. SCHATZ. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, last
week, I spoke on the Senate floor about
the perils of socialism. I never thought
in my entire life that I would have to
do something like that, but given the
rise of democratic socialists, which ob-
viously is a contradiction in terms, I
think it is important to remind the
American people about the failures of
socialism, as well as radical policies
like the ones the Democrats are trying
to push off on the American people.
If you want to know what command
and control economics is and what it
would mean to our freedom and our lib-
erty, all you need to do is look at the
Green New Deal. This is really nothing
more than an attempt to mask this
power grab by the Federal Government
in feel-good environmental policy by
mixing ideas like Medicare for All and
guaranteed jobs and unrealistic eco-
nomic and environmental policies.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, will
the Senator yield for a question?
Mr. CORNYN. With net zero emis-
sions—
Mr. SCHUMER. Will my colleague
from Texas yield for a question instead
of just filibustering what he says?
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I will—
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas has the floor.
Mr. CORNYN.—yield for a question
after I conclude my remarks, not to be
interrupted.
Mr. SCHUMER. I simply want to ask
the Senator—
Mr. CORNYN. Regular order, Mr.
President.
Mr. SCHUMER.—if he believes cli-
mate change is real—
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas has the floor.
Mr. SCHUMER.—or caused by hu-
mans.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President.
Mr. SCHUMER. We know what he is
not for. What is he for?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator will yield. The Senator from Texas
has the floor.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I am
not for socialism. I am not for Wash-
ington, DC, thinking they know better
than what my constituents know
about.
Mr. SCHUMER. Will the Senator
yield for a question and say what he is
for?
Mr. CORNYN. I will not yield.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. SCHUMER. Will he yield for a
question stating what he is for, not
what he’s against but what he is for?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will be in order.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas has the floor.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, if the
Democratic leader will just be quiet—
Mr. SCHUMER. Will the Senator
yield?
Mr. CORNYN. If he will be quiet for
a minute, I will tell him what I am for,
if he will quit interrupting.
So what this is is an attempt—is
purely a power grab here in Wash-
ington masked as a feel-good environ-
mental policy, mixing ideas like Medi-
care for All and guaranteed jobs with
wildly unrealistic and radical environ-
mental policies like zero net emissions
transportation systems and guaranteed
green housing.
Since this resolution was proposed, it
has gained the ire of people on both
sides of the aisle, something we don’t
see that often, and something that I
don’t know that I have ever seen. One
of this bill’s authors refers to the ma-
jority leader’s intent to bring this reso-
lution to the floor as sabotage.
Ordinarily, when you introduce an
idea to the U.S. Congress, you are beg-
ging the majority leader to put it on
the floor—the committee chairman to
put it through committee so you can
advance your idea. When the majority
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.019 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1684 March 6, 2019
leader said he would do that for the
Green New Deal, it was called sabo-
tage.
Since the Green New Deal was rolled
out, things in Washington have gotten
increasingly wacky and, believe it or
not, even crazy.
We recently put a pricetag on the
Green New Deal. You heard the Sen-
ator from Iowa talk about the $93 tril-
lion. That is so much money that I
doubt most of us can wrap our brains
around it. It is kind of like when some-
body tells you the Earth is 140 million
miles from Mars. How do you concep-
tualize that? You have no point of ref-
erence to understand just how far that
really is.
Let me put it this way: If you com-
bine the gross domestic product of
every single country in 2017—every sin-
gle country on the planet in 2017—the
price of the Green New Deal would be
higher than that.
If you total up how much the United
States has spent—the U.S. Govern-
ment, since the Constitution went into
effect in 1789, the price of the Green
New Deal would still be higher.
If you total the value of 1 year’s
worth of oil and gas production in
Texas, it would take almost seven cen-
turies of production to pay for the
Green New Deal.
Margaret Thatcher, who had a gift
for words, said: ‘‘The problem with so-
cialism is that you eventually run out
of other people’s money.’’ Well, in this
case, you don’t even have the money to
begin with, but that is what this is
really about.
This is the antithesis of what our
Founders believed in when they found-
ed the United States of America. They
believed that checks and balances and
separated powers were protections of
our individual liberty and our right to
make decisions for ourselves and our
families.
They viewed the concentration of
power that would be necessary to do
something like the Green New Deal as
the opposite—antagonistic to indi-
vidual liberty.
Mr. President, things like eradi-
cating air travel clearly aren’t the an-
swer, and the Senator from Hawaii
would say that wouldn’t work very well
if you tried to get to Hawaii from
Washington, DC.
No matter what your perspectives on
energy are or the environment, I think
every one of us can single out some-
thing we can agree on; that is, smarter
policies that will not bankrupt our
country.
The solution is not the Green New
Deal or another government power
grab. It is all about innovation—
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President.
Mr. CORNYN.—the creativity of
Americans—
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President.
Mr. CORNYN.—doing research and
science to come up with—
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President.
Mr. CORNYN.—innovations.
Mr. MARKEY. Will the Senator yield
for a second?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas has the floor. He has
declined to yield.
Mr. MARKEY. I would just seek to be
recognized and just ask the Senator if
the—
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator has not yielded.
Mr. MARKEY.—$93 trillion number
comes from a Koch brothers-funded or-
ganization.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts will suspend.
The Senate will be in order.
The Senator from Texas has the
floor.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I notice
one thing: When people around here—
colleagues across the aisle—don’t like
what they are hearing, they try to sup-
press or drown out dissenting voices.
I think the American people need to
hear this debate because our ability to
innovate is critical to the success of
our economy and our competitiveness
in the global economy.
Investing in science and technology
and increasing our ability to innovate
is an important part of keeping our
economy strong. Rather than the gov-
ernment’s seizing control of nearly
every industry, overregulating their
activities as you would under the
Green New Deal, we should harness the
power of the private sector to drive
real, affordable solutions, and that is
how we find cutting-edge solutions to
our biggest challenges.
A lot of folks try to paint with broad
strokes about energy. You are either
on the side of innovation and new tech-
nologies or you are in favor of tradi-
tional oil and gas development.
Well, I am proud to come from a
State that believes truly in an ‘‘all of
the above’’ approach. We generate
more electricity from wind than any
other State in the country, and we be-
lieve in all of the above. You don’t
have to pick one or the other.
Not only do we lead the Nation in oil
and gas production, we also lead, as I
said, in wind energy production too. We
are proof that you can implement poli-
cies that get government out of the
way and leave industry experts to do
their jobs. You can be pro-energy, pro-
innovation, and pro-growth.
The Green New Deal is not the an-
swer to our problems. It is a solution in
search of a problem, and it is a naked
power grab by Washington, DC, seeking
to impose on each and every American
how we should run our lives.
It is the opposite of the individual
liberties and freedoms that our Found-
ers believed our country would be
based on. I hope in the coming months
we will take steps to promote freedom
and not more government control and
ideas that lead to innovation, not so-
cialist policies.
With that, I yield to my friend from
Indiana.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, my
colleague said he would yield to a ques-
tion after he finished debating. I would
like to ask him a question.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I
would like to ask my colleague a ques-
tion. I appreciate that.
Just three: No. 1, does he believe that
climate change is real? Does he believe
it is caused by humans? And does he
believe this body ought to do some-
thing about it?
I would appreciate an answer.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I will
say to my friend from New York that I
know what their talking points are
now, but I don’t believe what we ought
to do about the environment is impose
a travesty like the Green New Deal.
This is a government power grab. It
is unaffordable. It is unrealistic. And,
really, this reflects the most radical
ideology and fringe of the Democratic
Party today.
I think we should not have a socialist
power grab of our entire economy.
Mr. SCHUMER. Will the Senator—
Mr. President, will he yield? He didn’t
really answer my question.
What will he do about climate
change? I ask my colleague to please
answer not what he is against but what
he is for. We have not heard from the
other side of the aisle anything they
are for about climate change or wheth-
er they believe it is real and caused by
humans.
I would ask my colleague, once
again, not what he is against. We know
what he is against. What is he for?
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, there is
a great book called
‘‘SuperFreakonomics’’ written by some
Chicago economists who talk about the
threat to the environment of horse ma-
nure back when we had horse-drawn
buggies in our cities because the inter-
nal combustion engine had not been
created. They point out that that envi-
ronmental hazard went away almost
overnight because the internal combus-
tion engine was created.
Likewise, when I was growing up, a
scientist named Paul Ehrlich from
Stanford wrote a book called ‘‘The
Population Bomb.’’ He said that mil-
lions of people would starve across our
country and across the world unless we
basically quit having children. What he
miscalculated is the impact of a gen-
tleman by the name of Norman
Borlaug and the Green Revolution that
he began due to research and develop-
ment of an innovative plant gene re-
search.
So we were able to basically defeat
the population bomb, and we were able
to deal with the environmental hazard
of horse manure by innovation. That is
what I am for, that is what I said, and
that is what I would say again to my
friend from New York.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Indiana is recognized.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I rise
today in opposition to the so-called
Green New Deal. This unaffordable, un-
attainable, and unrealistic proposal is
bad for all Americans, but it is espe-
cially bad for the people who live in my
home State of Indiana.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.021 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1685
March 6, 2019
Indiana is the most manufacturing-
intensive State in the country, and my
Hoosiers are rightfully proud of that
distinction. We make America’s planes,
our trucks, our recreational vehicles,
our boats, and our pipelines. We
produce the aluminum and steel that
go into those products. We mine the
coal that makes it affordable to power
all of those factories.
Indiana is home to those respectable,
high-paying jobs because of the highly
skilled Hoosier workforce, our world-
class infrastructure network, and, yes,
our low energy costs. But the Green
New Deal would crush Indiana’s afford-
able energy prices, forcing the cost of
doing business to skyrocket for Hoosier
manufacturers and farmers alike and
eliminating jobs in the process.
What would this Green New Deal
mean for American families?
Over the next decade, the so-called
deal would cost up to $65,000 per Amer-
ican household per year. That is rough-
ly 50 percent—47 percent more than the
median Hoosier household income.
Yes, America must continue to sup-
port an ‘‘all of the above’’ energy strat-
egy, and I look forward to working in a
bipartisan way to get that done. We
must continue to develop renewable en-
ergy sources like wind and solar, but
we must also continue to utilize our
important baseload energy sources—
that is your coal, your natural gas,
your nuclear power. We simply cannot
afford to eliminate these critical
sources from our Nation’s energy mix,
and that is what the Green New Deal
would call for.
In Indiana, approximately 92 percent
of our electricity is generated by coal
and natural gas—92 percent. Wind and
solar account for just 6 percent of Indi-
ana’s electricity, and they cannot reli-
ably and affordably produce the elec-
tricity Indiana needs.
So instead of turning a blind eye to
coal and natural gas—energy sources
that power America—let’s continue to
incentivize research and development.
Instead of promoting job-killing legis-
lation like the Green New Deal, we
should be promoting proposals like the
USE IT Act. This is bipartisan legisla-
tion put forward by my colleague from
Wyoming that would promote carbon
capture research and development.
We agree on the need to incentivize
market-based carbon capture systems.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
would the Senator from Indiana yield
for a question?
Mr. YOUNG. I would like to continue
until I complete my remarks. I thank
my colleague.
We really need to incentivize mar-
ket-based carbon capture systems and
ensure America can continue to clean-
ly and affordably produce baseload en-
ergy. By my reckoning, this is just one
of many areas in which Republicans
and Democrats can find common
ground and work together to protect
God’s green Earth.
Indiana is an environmentally con-
scientious State. We continue to ex-
pand solar and wind production each
year. We love to protect our important
natural resources, such as the Indiana
Dunes and Hoosier National Forest, but
we cannot support a proposal like the
Green New Deal that would endanger
tens of thousands of Hoosier jobs. The
Green New Deal is widely out of touch
with Indiana’s priorities. Hoosiers
know a bad deal when they see one.
This is a bad deal.
My fellow Hoosiers are greatly con-
cerned that this radical proposal will
cause utility bills to skyrocket and
force Indiana factories to shutter. For
these reasons, I am a resounding no on
the Green New Deal. I stand with Hoo-
sier farmers, I stand with Hoosier man-
ufacturers, and I stand with Hoosier
families in opposing this $93 trillion
deal.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
will the Senator from Indiana yield for
a question?
Mr. YOUNG. I will.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
does the Senator believe climate
change is real, and will he stand with
the scientific community, which be-
lieves unanimously or almost com-
pletely unanimously that climate
change is real and that human activity
caused it?
Mr. YOUNG. Well, that is an easy
one. I thank my good colleague. I have
publicly said for a long period of time—
and you can check my record—that I
believe the climate is changing. I be-
lieve that all flora, fauna, and human
beings have some impact on that. I also
fervently believe that we can protect
our environment without wrecking our
economy. We can do that through en-
ergy efficiency initiatives, investment
in energy R&D, carbon capture and se-
questration, and adoption of free mar-
ket principles.
I read a very impactful book, in re-
sponse to my good colleague, early on
in my adulthood, and I recommend it
to him. It is titled ‘‘Ecocide in the
USSR,’’ and it explains how centrally
planned economies and fatal, conceit-
like efforts to engineer a better envi-
ronment centrally, to plan an economy
centrally, end up decimating our nat-
ural environment. That continues to
have an impact on how I look at these
issues. Perhaps we will find an oppor-
tunity to work together, though, and
find some common ground. It won’t be
on the Green New Deal.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I come to
the floor to join my colleagues in ex-
pressing concern over the maybe well-
intended but poorly constructed policy
in the Green New Deal.
First, I want to start by saying I
have no intention of yielding until the
end of my remarks, but the one ques-
tion I would have for people across the
aisle is, Do you actually support the
Green New Deal? Do you support it in
the form it has been proposed? I can’t
imagine that you do because you un-
derstand the math, you understand the
challenges, and you understand the re-
ality that $65,000 a year is the median
household income in North Carolina.
So what we are talking about—the
cost of the bill over 10 years is roughly
what the average North Carolinian
family makes. We know that is not sus-
tainable. We know it is not sustainable
to have our electric bills increase by
$3,800 a year. We know it is not sustain-
able to go beyond just the energy com-
ponents of the Green New Deal to other
aspects of the Green New Deal that
just don’t make sense.
So $93 trillion is not something I can
get my head wrapped around. I know
that is the number we are talking
about. But I think we can get to the
household impact and recognize that it
is not sustainable, right? So why are
we having this discussion?
Mr. MARKEY. Would the Senator
yield and tell us—
Mr. TILLIS. I do not yield.
Mr. BARRASSO. Regular order.
Mr. MARKEY—where he got that
bogus number of $93 trillion? That is a
completely made-up number by the
Koch brothers.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Massachu-
setts will suspend. The Senate is out of
order.
The Senator from North Carolina has
the floor.
Mr. TILLIS. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina has made it
very clear that he will not yield until
he is finished.
Mr. TILLIS. I will state for any other
Members who come in that I have no
intention of yielding. And in my time,
in the 4 years I have been here, it has
never occurred to me to interrupt in
the way that we have been interrupted
here, but maybe that actually gets to
the point. This bill, as proposed,
doesn’t work.
I want to go back and tell you, as a
Member of the North Carolina House,
when I was in the minority as a Repub-
lican, I supported the renewable port-
folio standard. I went to my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle and said:
What you are proposing is not sustain-
able. Let’s work together and do some-
thing different. And we did. That gave
rise to almost 13 percent of all the en-
ergy generated in North Carolina today
being generated from renewable
sources. It gave rise to a sustainable
electric bill that is one of the most
competitive in the country.
What has happened with the Green
New Deal is that the people at the ex-
treme are preventing those of us who
actually want to make progress from
having a reasonable discussion instead
of shouting over each other.
I don’t care if it is $93 trillion, $43
trillion, or $10 trillion—it is
unsustainable. We can sit here and
question the sources, but at the end of
the day, we all know that this was the-
ater. This was something that people
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:51 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.023 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1686 March 6, 2019
wanted to pitch. They wanted to win
an election. But it was a dishonest
promise that could never be fulfilled.
If you take a look at the other provi-
sions of this bill—guaranteed jobs. I
mean, it is reading like some sort of a
socialist manifesto. As somebody who
grew up in a trailer park and who
didn’t get a degree until I was 36 years
old, I want an America that gives me
an opportunity, not an America that
tells me what my job is and how much
money I am going to make.
So we have to have a realistic discus-
sion about the Green New Deal. We are
pushing people into corners and not
having a good discussion about things
we should be making progress on.
By the way, just out of levity, we
even had some people go so far as to
say that maybe we should reduce the
number of cows we have on the planet
because they create methane gas. I will
not get into the gross reasons as to
why. So maybe the chicken caucus is
in favor of getting rid of cows or eating
more cows.
Why don’t we lower the temperature,
recognize we have a proposal that
doesn’t work, and recognize it was gen-
erally motivated by politics. And when
you take such an extreme stand, you
should expect the other side to come to
the floor, just as we are doing today,
and make it real.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, we had a
lot of discussion about the energy parts
of the Green New Deal, but it goes into
lots of other areas. There are many fre-
quently asked questions.
I would say on the energy costs—and
President Obama’s energy adviser says
you couldn’t reach the goal—one thing
we need to remember on the energy
costs is that families pay those utility
bills.
We just avoided a clean power regula-
tion that in my State would have dou-
bled the utility bill in 10 or 12 years.
During the 3 years or so we were debat-
ing that because the court cases kept
saying there really is no authority to
do this, I kept reminding the people I
work for, the next time you write your
utility bill, just write out your check
one more time, because if this goes
into effect, within a decade, that is
what you will be doing. See what hap-
pens when you pay that bill by writing
your check one more time.
Some of the questions on this have
been about other things as well. The
fact that we love a challenge—this
Green New Deal creates that. It talks
about Medicare for all. At least in the
talking points, it talks about job guar-
antees for all, a vacation in every job
guaranteed by the government, and I
think maybe even a vacation in the
government program if you choose not
to work.
There are lots of things here for peo-
ple to be concerned about. There are
estimates of cost, but even if they were
three times the cost, it would be pretty
extraordinary. In fact, $36 trillion
would rebuild the entire Interstate
Highway System every year for 100
years. When you are talking about $93
trillion, $80 trillion is the entire gross
domestic product of the world. These
are big numbers. It is a big bill.
Surprisingly, a dozen Senators are
supporting this bill. They have cospon-
sored the bill. Whether it is the guar-
anteed jobs number or the universal
healthcare number or the all-renewable
electric grid system number or the
guaranteed green housing number that
individuals would have to comply with,
this is an amazing step in a different
direction. It is one that the country
clearly will not take. It is one that I
believe even the sponsors have some
concerns about.
We will have a chance to vote on it
here in the next few days or weeks, and
we will see what the American people
have to say about it.
I yield my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
understand that the majority has the
floor, and so I will be very brief. I have
enormous regard for Senator BLUNT
and for those who have spoken already.
I just want to say that, for the people
who say we want to have a discussion
about this issue, we are so eager to
have a discussion about this issue. I
come here every week hoping to have a
discussion about this issue, and I would
love to have a discussion about this
issue. I would love to have hearings in
the Environment and Public Works
Committee about a climate bill.
I would love to have people working
together to solve this problem. I will
say that Senator SCHATZ and I have a
piece of climate legislation that is not
this one, but it does have the support
of seven Republican former chairs of
the President’s Council of Economic
Advisers, six current and former Re-
publican Congressmen, four former Re-
publican EPA Administrators and Sec-
retaries of Treasury and State, two
former Republican chairs of the Fed-
eral Reserve, and one former Repub-
lican CBO Director. A Republican con-
gressman referred to that bill as not
just an olive branch reaching out to
Republicans but an olive limb reaching
out to Republicans.
I hope we can emerge from this with
a real conversation about real bills,
and in the context of that, we will be
very interested to know what the Re-
publican proposal is to deal with cli-
mate change.
I yield the floor.
I thank the Presiding Officer, and I
appreciate the courtesy of my distin-
guished colleagues.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I would
like to thank my colleague from Iowa
for organizing this discussion on the
Green New Deal resolution.
The public doesn’t usually pay a
whole lot of attention to nonbinding
resolutions here in the Congress, but
that is not the case with this one. The
sponsors of the Green New Deal in the
House and the Senate certainly deserve
recognition for the profile they man-
aged to create so quickly. Of course,
that is a double-edged sword because
now people are beginning to pay atten-
tion to what is actually in the Green
New Deal.
Leader MCCONNELL has proposed
bringing the resolution to the floor,
which has created, in my view, sort of
a baffling response. The planned spon-
sors are claiming that a vote is ‘‘cyn-
ical’’ and meant to ‘‘disrupt’’ their
‘‘movement.’’ You and I both know
that every Member of this body would
clamor to have their bills brought up
for floor consideration. Most of us here
live in the land of realistic and prac-
tical solutions.
The Green New Deal is very vague,
but it does include enough detail to
know that it proposes radical solutions
that, in my view, are neither practical
nor realistic. It is a wish list dressed up
as environmental policy.
We knew it was going to be expen-
sive. We knew the goal was to elimi-
nate coal and gas industries, along
with a lot of other good-paying jobs
that they support in energy States like
mine. This isn’t the first salvo in the
war on coal, for sure. We knew all the
economic harm they would be pro-
posing, but this is a massive shift to
the left that goes far beyond anything
the Democrats have proposed before.
This plan doesn’t stop at eliminating
the use of coal and natural gas for elec-
tricity. The plan also ends nuclear
electricity and severely curtails the
commercial air industry.
The environmental and energy com-
ponents of this proposal are estimated
to cost $8.3 to $12.3 trillion over the
next decade, which averages out to
about $52,000 to $71,000 for every Amer-
ican household.
We will be left with possibly an en-
ergy grid that lacks affordability and
reliability to make the American man-
ufacturers competitive around the
globe and meet the basic needs of our
families. Right now, coal, natural gas,
and nuclear energy account for 83 per-
cent of all the electricity produced in
the United States. It is neither prac-
tical nor realistic to believe that we
could phase all of that capacity out
without some catastrophic con-
sequences.
Unbelievably, this is just one piece of
the Green New Deal. The sticker shock
continues with tens of trillions of dol-
lars to fund guaranteed jobs for people
unwilling to work, eliminate private
healthcare for 170 Americans in favor
of a government-run system, replace or
retrofit all housing stock for environ-
mental compliance, and guaranteeing
it to every American and putting food
on everyone’s table. Altogether, it
could cost possibly $93 trillion over a
10-year period of time. We could liq-
uidate all the wealth in the entire
country and maybe just cover that tab,
but we wouldn’t have anything left.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.024 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1687
March 6, 2019
The Green New Deal sponsors claim
the government will be making invest-
ments. They claim that the returns
will pay for everything and make a
profit for the people. Is this realistic or
practical?
I think not. And if it fails, then what
do we do?
Some say the Green New Deal, even
if it is a disaster of a policy that would
destroy our economy, at least has Con-
gress finally talking about climate
change. This is what we heard from my
colleague. We serve on the EPW Com-
mittee together. It is a huge disservice,
I think, to us. We have been working in
a bipartisan fashion to deliver real so-
lutions since before anyone had ever
heard of the Green New Deal.
In the EPW Committee, Senators
from coal States, such as Senator BAR-
RASSO from Wyoming, who is here, and
Senator WHITEHOUSE from Rhode Is-
land, and Senator CARPER, and myself
have been working for market-driven
solutions to the challenge of atmos-
pheric CO2.
Members of both parties have worked
and will continue to work on these im-
portant policies to meaningfully ad-
dress carbon challenges while also pro-
tecting and creating jobs. We do not
need a $93 trillion turn that fundamen-
tally alters the foundations of this
country. We are capable of making in-
vestments in technology and infra-
structure to address our Nation’s chal-
lenges in a commonsense and bipar-
tisan way.
The Green New Deal is not practical.
It is not realistic, and it is a bit scary
that so many Democrats are embracing
it. The American people deserve to
know where each of us stands on this
policy. That is why we are going to
have a vote. I am glad that we will
have the opportunity to take a vote on
this resolution in the coming months,
and I hope that all of my colleagues
will join me in opposing this utterly
unfathomable and unworkable resolu-
tion.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Indiana.
Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, although
I had prepared my remarks to address
what many of my colleagues have just
covered—and that would be the prepos-
terous proposal of the Green New
Deal—I want to take a little different
angle.
I think there is a point where so
often those of us on the conservative
side of the ledger, I think, get over-
whelmed by the conversation being
dominated by the other side. It is a fer-
tile ground to want to try to use a bet-
ter environment to parlay that incre-
mental way into more government.
I think what we have here is just like
addressing healthcare costs. We had
ObamaCare—the Affordable Care Act—
which turned out to be the ‘‘Uncom-
fortable Care Act,’’ but there were
issues that were valid. In my own com-
pany years ago, I was worried about it.
I drafted a plan that was proactive, ad-
dressed high healthcare costs, and
made the pledge that you should never
go broke because you get sick or have
a bad accident. I crafted a plan through
the real world that cut costs, and my
employees have not paid a premium in-
crease in 9 years.
I want to talk about the Green New
Deal. I am a conservationist, and I am
a member of the Nature Conservancy,
as a business and an individual. We
cannot let the other side co-opt the
issue and preempt it because they
think the argument is on their side. I
am not going to belabor the point that
I think it is preposterous. I want to
make the point that if you think any
of that can be done—whether it is $50
trillion or $93 trillion—keep in mind
that we are running nearly trillion-dol-
lar deficits. We are $22 trillion in debt.
Does that sound like anything that the
Federal Government could actually
solve in a sustainable way when we are
in a pickle like we are currently in?
Until we change the dynamic here
and get individuals who know how to
do things where it works, in States like
Indiana and in many States, and
maybe let States have a bigger hand in
the equation, where their budgets are
balanced, where they have cash bal-
ances, and where it is not a false hope.
Let’s look at the particulars of what
the Green New Deal is supposed to do
in addition to cleaning up our environ-
ment, which we have made great
strides with. It is being spun as an eco-
nomic argument. It is the exact oppo-
site of that. I want to challenge folks
on our side of the ledger, from the
practical side, to where we generally
lose out on the general argument, and,
incrementally, things change against
us over time.
We just had legislation pass in 2017. I
want to tell this little story of what we
did in our own special way. I am going
to challenge enterprisers and I am
going to challenge businesses across
the country to think about this as a
way to avoid that.
In 2017 we had, in my opinion—for en-
terprisers, small businesses, and farm-
ers; and I have been involved in both—
the biggest opportunity that has come
along in years. We are keeping more of
our own resources and not sending it
here to a broken institution that has
given us all of these deficits and debt,
but we have to do something with it.
Back in January of 2018, my son, who
is one of my three kids now in my busi-
ness, said: Dad, let’s take tax reform
and share the benefits with employees.
That is a great idea. I didn’t think it
would have a bigger political meaning
until he said: Hey, let’s put it in the
company memo that it is due to tax re-
form. We have taken, in my mind, the
biggest thing we could do—whether
you want to return the dividends into
the environment, into higher wages, or
into whatever you want to do—and we
have had less than a year to run with
it. All I know is that like many compa-
nies in Indiana, we lowered healthcare
costs and flattened them for 9 years.
We raised 401(k) benefits. We started
quarterly bonuses instead of just an-
nual ones.
We are doing what I think this coun-
try needs to do—quit looking to the
Federal Government to solve all of our
problems, even when they have an ar-
gument like that we need to further
improve our environment, that we need
to avoid what could possibly be a ca-
tastrophe down the road, where we do
stick our head in the sand.
Don’t look to this institution to do it
because I don’t think you can credibly
say that you can do anything in the
context of the product that has been
delivered over the last decade or two.
States, individuals, businesses, organi-
zations—but especially businesses, be-
cause we have reaped the benefits, in
my opinion, of the biggest legislation
that has occurred in decades—must put
our money where our mouth is, where
my company’s is. Invest in your em-
ployees and change the system from
the bottom up, not from the top down.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, first,
I want to thank my colleagues for com-
ing down here and having this impor-
tant discussion. I want to thank my
Democratic colleagues, for whom I
have a lot of respect, for being here and
having this debate. I am sure it is not
going to be the first time that we are
going to be doing this on the Green
New Deal or other elements of pro-
posals coming from the House or the
Senate. This is a big issue happening in
the House and what is going to happen
over here with some of our colleagues.
I think, in many ways, it is an issue
that focuses on the future and where
the country is going. As the majority
leader recently said in an interview, ‘‘I
can pretty safely say this is the first
time in my political career that the es-
sence of America is being debated . . .
of socialism and democratic cap-
italism.’’
OK. Let’s have that debate. We are
having that debate. What is the essence
of America? I believe it is freedom and
liberty. That is what we are founded
on, and that is what I think proposals
like the Green New Deal would under-
mine. To be clear, some people are jok-
ing about it—like banning hamburgers
or airplanes or returning to the horse
and buggy, but I actually think there
are many people who are looking at
this very seriously, and so we should.
Some of these kinds of ideas can be
funny until they are not funny. What
we are trying to do here is to talk
about this proposal in a serious man-
ner. In my State, the great State of
Alaska, this is a deadly serious matter.
There is so much that is in this idea,
the Green New Deal—government take-
over, healthcare, free housing, and free
food, and the list goes on and on. The
costs, as have been pointed out, are
very high.
Today what I want to do is to talk
about one aspect that would be par-
ticularly detrimental to my State and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.025 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1688 March 6, 2019
to many other States—my colleagues
from West Virginia and North Dakota
are here on the floor—and that is this
proposal to ban hydrocarbons produced
in America within a decade. This is not
a joke.
There are many Members in this
body—some are on the floor right now,
and some are in the House—who think
this is a serious proposal and would
like to do it. I want to talk about that.
I want to stipulate that I am certainly
somebody who is in favor of ‘‘all of the
above’’ energy. The fact that America
is now producing more oil, more gas,
and more renewables than any other
country in the world is good for all of
us, Democrats and Republicans.
My colleague from Rhode Island is
here. He and I have worked on a whole
host of issues together involving
oceans. I think the technological ad-
vances with regard to hundreds of
years of supplies of natural gas with
technology and with renewables pro-
vide huge opportunities for Democrats
and Republicans to work together to
bring down greenhouse gas emissions.
This is enormous. We are just scratch-
ing the surface.
I look forward to working with him
and the Senator from Massachusetts on
these kinds of ideas because I think
they are exciting, and I think, when
you are burning natural gas at very
high temperatures, you almost have
very little greenhouse gas emissions.
Combine that with technology and re-
newables. We have hundreds of years of
these supplies. It is a great oppor-
tunity, and it is exciting. I want to
work with them.
Let me get back to the proposal on
the Green New Deal on natural re-
sources.
In my opinion, we do not spend
enough time on this floor talking
about the positive societal benefits of
natural resource development in Amer-
ica—oil, gas, renewables, fisheries.
These industries don’t just fuel our
power generation and transportation
and electricity for our homes; these in-
dustries literally lift people out of pov-
erty. They lengthen life expectancy.
They literally save lives. There is a
strong correlation between poverty,
the lack of economic opportunity, and
the health of our citizens.
I am going to show a few charts here.
This correlation is strong in my
State, particularly with our Alaska
Native population. In 1954, the Interior
Department, with the help of the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh, conducted a
study of the health of Alaska Natives.
Here is a quote from 1954: ‘‘The indig-
enous people of Native Alaska are the
victims of sickness, crippling condi-
tions and premature death to a degree
exceeded in very few parts of the
world.’’
Some of the poorest people on the
planet were my constituents in Alas-
ka—in America—in 1954. More than 10
years later, in 1969—just 50 years ago—
the situation was still dire.
Here is what Emil Notti, the presi-
dent of the Alaska Federation of Na-
tives, told Congress 50 years ago, in
1969:
The native people in rural Alaska live in
the most miserable homes in the United
States. The life expectancy of the average
Native Alaskan is 34 years old compared to
69 years old for the rest of the country.
So what happened after that?
We had a big change. We are not
there yet, but we had a big change, and
I want to explain. This was a chart
that was studied just last year in the
Journal of Internal Medicine. It is a
study that was published in 2018 about
the life expectancies of Americans.
Where you see blue and purple is
where Americans’ life expectancy in-
creased the most. The State with the
greatest change in the entire country
was in my State. By the way, that is a
pretty important statistic—life expect-
ancy. It doesn’t get more important
than that. Are you living longer? Look
what happened in Alaska. The North
Slope of Alaska, the Aleutian Islands
chain, and the southeast all experi-
enced huge increases in life expectancy
from these very low levels, some of the
lowest in the world.
Why did that happen?
On the North Slope of Alaska, this
Congress passed the Trans-Alaska
Pipeline Authorization Act to develop
Prudhoe Bay, to develop oil and gas—
some of the biggest fields in the world.
At the same time, we also had a very
large zinc mine that came into produc-
tion. Because of this body’s Magnuson-
Stevens Act, we also had a huge in-
crease in our fisheries.
The bottom line is that natural re-
source development happened in Alas-
ka, in America, and people’s lives in-
creased. That is a remarkable thing,
and we don’t talk about it enough. The
average life expectancy increase in
Alaska was almost between 8 and 13
years. That is a measure of success be-
cause we were developing our resources
of oil and gas. That is why I am taking
this Green New Deal literally deadly
seriously because what we have done in
our State and in our country by pro-
ducing resources is we have created the
ability for people to actually live
longer, and I challenge my colleagues
to come up with a better statistic and
a more important statistic than that.
I am going to end with a quote from
a gentleman who came down here and
testified in front of the Senate, Mat-
thew Rexford—a proud Alaska Native
leader from Kaktovik, AK, which is in
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. He
testified that Congress should give his
small community the opportunity to
develop the resources near his village.
We did that in 2017 after a 40-year de-
bate.
He spoke firsthand about his knowl-
edge as to what resource development
did for America, for Alaska, and for his
community:
The oil and gas industry supports our com-
munities by providing jobs, business oppor-
tunities, infrastructure investment. It has
built our schools, hospitals. It has moved our
people from Third World living conditions to
what we expect in America. We refuse to go
backward in time.
That is what he said. I believe the
Green New Deal—certainly, its ban on
hydrocarbon production—would take
us back in time. For the sake of Mat-
thew and all of these Alaskans who
have done so well by responsibly devel-
oping our resources, we are not going
to allow that to happen.
I yield the floor to my colleague from
North Dakota.
Mr. MARKEY. Will the Senator
yield?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will be in order.
Does the Senator from Alaska yield
for a question?
Mr. SULLIVAN. I yield my time to
the Senator from North Dakota.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is
not possible.
Mr. MARKEY. Would the Senator
from Alaska yield for a question?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I be-
lieve I still have the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. No. The
Senator from Alaska yielded the floor.
The Senator from Massachusetts is
recognized.
Mr. MARKEY. I thank the Presiding
Officer.
Mr. President, I would pose a ques-
tion to the Senator from Alaska.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts cannot pose a
question. He has the floor.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President,
through the Presiding Officer, I pose a
question to the Senator from Alaska.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska does not have the
floor. Therefore, he cannot respond.
The Senator from Massachusetts has
the floor.
Mr. MARKEY. I thank the Presiding
Officer.
I will just make this point through
the Presiding Officer, which is that the
words ‘‘fossil fuels’’ are not in the reso-
lution. No. 2, airplanes are not banned
in the resolution. No. 3, there is no
guarantee for healthcare for everyone
in America in the resolution. No. 4,
there is nothing that provides for those
who are unwilling to work in the reso-
lution. None of this is true.
We know the Koch brothers paid for
this $93 trillion study, and all we are
hearing from the Republican side is of
a Koch brothers-produced document
that is absolutely inaccurate. There is
no banning of airplanes. There is no
guarantee of Medicare for all. Neither
of those is in the resolution. This en-
tire discussion is based upon a com-
pletely fraudulent, bogus report that
the Koch brothers produced.
What we are trying to say to the
other side is we should have a debate
about the science, that we should have
a debate about the human activity,
that we should have a debate about
what the solutions are, and that we
should bring it out here as a great de-
liberative body.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.026 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1689
March 6, 2019
Right now, we are debating the Green
New Deal, but the Republicans haven’t
given us any hearings. They have given
us no scientists, no witnesses, and no
debate. They are just doing this be-
cause the Koch brothers have produced
a report at a cost of $93 trillion that is
completely and totally inaccurate. In
fact, with regard to the accusation of
the banning of airplanes, PolitiFact
has looked at it, examined it, and said
it is completely and totally inaccurate.
I think it is difficult to have a debate
when the facts here are those which we
cannot submit to committees, wit-
nesses, debates. Instead, all we are sub-
jected to is a representation of the
Green New Deal that is completely in-
accurate. For that matter, the words
‘‘fossil fuels’’ don’t even appear in the
Green New Deal.
This is not right. If the Republicans
want to, they should set up a debate.
Then we could have it out here on
whether the planet is dangerously
warming, whether human activity is
principally responsible, whether this
body should take action in order to
deal with that problem, and whether,
economically, we can unleash a techno-
logical revolution to solve the problem.
That is what we should be debating
out here this afternoon, not a whole
group of bogus facts that have been
produced by the Koch brothers, have
been paid for by the Koch brothers, and
that are being repeated over and over
again on the other side without any
Republican saying he actually believes
the planet is dangerously warming,
that he actually agrees with the U.N.’s
scientists who say it is an existential
threat to us, that he actually agrees it
is largely caused by human activity,
and that we, the greatest deliberative
body in the world, should have a robust
debate. If the Republicans believe it is
serious, they should present their own
plan for debate on the Senate floor.
Mr. SCHUMER. Will the Senator
yield?
Mr. MARKEY. I yield to the leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, we
thank our friends on the other side of
the aisle for helping to make our case.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is the
Senator asking a question?
Mr. SCHUMER. Yes, I am asking a
question.
If the Senator from Massachusetts
has the floor, I ask a question of the
Senator from Massachusetts.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Does the
Senator from Massachusetts yield for a
question?
Mr. MARKEY. I yield to the leader
for a question.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, we
have been making the case for the last
several weeks that our Republican col-
leagues love to get up and rant about
what they are against even though
they exaggerate and tell mistruths
about the bill Senator MARKEY has
sponsored. Yet we have been asking re-
peatedly, haven’t we, three questions:
Do you believe climate change is real?
Do you believe it is caused by human
activity? Most importantly, what
would you do about it?
Here we have had an hour of debate,
haven’t we, with our Republican col-
leagues, and there have been a lot of
mistruths and a lot of ‘‘here is what we
are against’’ but not one single thing
they are for.
So isn’t it true, my friend from Mas-
sachusetts, that they have helped to
make our case? We are glad they are fi-
nally talking about climate change,
but we have to do something about it.
Isn’t it true we haven’t heard a single
positive response about what they
would do?
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, the
leader has put his finger right on it.
We want a debate. We want to see
their plan. We want to know if they
agree with the science of the entire
United Nations and 13 of our own Fed-
eral Agencies that produced an iden-
tical report at the end of 2018—that
being, it is dangerous and a great
threat to our country, and we have to
do something about it.
So where is the Republicans’ plan?
What is their answer? Of course, they
don’t have one. They want to bring out
the Green New Deal with no hearings,
no witnesses, and no science when they
should be bringing out their own plan.
The leader is right. It is just, basi-
cally, a condition they have, and the
number they are using—the $93 trillion
in terms of the cost of the Green New
Deal—is a Koch brothers-produced
number. It is their group that put it to-
gether. So how could we possibly be
having a serious debate about some-
thing the Koch brothers have produced,
in terms of dealing with global warm-
ing, since they are central players in
this dangerous warming of our planet?
I yield to the leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I pose
a second question.
Isn’t it true that our Republican col-
leagues have been in the majority for 5
years and that during that time, more
and more Americans believe global
warming is a serious problem? I think
it is above two-thirds. It is at 70 per-
cent. It is a significant percentage of
Republicans and a majority of Demo-
crats and Independents. Isn’t it true
that in those 5 years, the Republican
leader, our friend, hasn’t brought a sin-
gle piece of legislation to the floor that
would deal with climate change in any
way? Is that correct?
Mr. MARKEY. The leader is correct.
No solutions, 5 years, and it is more
dangerously warm on the planet. Four
hundred billion dollars’ worth of dam-
age was done to our country in the last
2 years. We had fires out in the West,
flooding, $400 billion worth of damage—
and the consensus among scientists is
that it is only going to grow worse as
each year goes by—and still no an-
swers. Nothing on the floor from the
Republicans, nothing that would deal
with the problem, and no admission
that it is caused by human beings and
that we can do something about it.
Mr. SCHUMER. Finally, we have not
heard a single answer from any of the
Senators on the floor or any who spoke
about what their plan is.
So I would ask you to repeat and ask
them three questions that they still
haven’t answered—simple questions
with no predisposed answers.
A, do any of our Republican col-
leagues—this is a question—believe cli-
mate change is real?
Mr. MARKEY. We don’t know the an-
swer.
Mr. SCHUMER. Second, do any of our
Republican colleagues over there be-
lieve it is caused by human activity?
Mr. MARKEY. We don’t know the an-
swer.
Mr. SCHUMER. And C, do they have
any plan, proposal, suggestion as to
how we deal with the issue?
Mr. MARKEY. We don’t know the an-
swer.
Mr. SCHUMER. And I would ask my
colleague to ask our Republican
friends—if they have an answer to any
of those questions, to yield the floor to
them.
Mr. MARKEY. And I would be glad to
yield the floor to any of them who
would be willing to be recognized, but,
through the leader, the problem is that
they keep talking about a $93 trillion
cost, which is a report from the Amer-
ican Action Forum, a partisan, right-
wing group funded by the Koch Broth-
ers and Karl Rove as a sister group to
his Crossroads USA 501(c)(3). That is
what we are now debating out here on
the floor, and not the science.
Mr. SCHUMER. Can you ask them to
not repeat the same talking points
about what they are against and fi-
nally say something about what they
are for?
Mr. MARKEY. I would yield to any of
my friends on the other side of the
aisle who have concrete, positive pro-
posals for dealing with the crisis of cli-
mate change in our country and on the
planet.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ap-
preciate the opportunity to come to
the floor to answer those specific ques-
tions, and I would point to an op-ed
that I wrote for the New York Times
last year. Perhaps the Senator from
New York doesn’t read his hometown
newspaper, but there is an editorial in
the New York Times of December 18:
‘‘Cut Carbon Through Innovation, Not
Regulation.’’ It is a plan. Cut carbon
through innovation, not regulation.
The question is, Do we believe the
climate is changing? Do humans have
an impact? The answer is yes to both.
As a matter of fact, I wrote:
[The] climate is changing, and we, collec-
tively, have a responsibility to do something
about it.
It is right here in the New York
Times from December 18.
Second, the United States and the world
will continue to rely on affordable and abun-
dant fossil fuels, including coal, to power our
economies for decades to come.
We need to also rely on innovation,
not new taxes, not punishing global
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.028 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1690 March 6, 2019
agreements. That is the ultimate solu-
tion.
I will point out that this is some-
thing that I had written and submitted
and published long before the so-called
Green New Deal was ever introduced
into Congress either in the House or in
the Senate.
I go on to say:
People across the world are rejecting the
idea that carbon taxes and raising the cost of
energy is the answer to lowering emissions.
Because we know, as I go on:
In France, the government just suspended
a planned fuel tax increase after some of its
citizens took to the streets in protest.
It was every story on the news.
And in the United States, the results of
[the] November elections showed that these
plans and other government interventions
are just as unpopular.
Voters in Washington State rejected the
creation of an expensive tax on carbon emis-
sions. In Colorado, a ballot measure to se-
verely restrict drilling was defeated. And in
Arizona, voters rejected a mandate to make
the state’s utilities much more dependent on
renewable energy by 2030—regardless of the
cost to consumers.
I would point out that all three of
those States elected liberal Democrats
to Congress on election night.
In further answer to that question, I
would point to USA TODAY, March 4,
2019. Today is the 6th, so we are talking
Monday. Today is Wednesday. This is
this week’s paper, front page:
To a warming planet’s rescue: Carbon Cap-
ture.
To the rescue of a warming planet.
In the race against climate change, sci-
entists are looking for ways to pull CO2 out
of the Earth’s atmosphere and store it away.
And what they point to is bipartisan
legislation passed by this body, passed
by the House, and signed into law by
President Trump focusing on carbon
capture and sequestration. It talks
about a program called 45Q. That is the
FUTURE Act. One of the cosponsors
from the other side of the aisle is on
the floor right now. His name is men-
tioned, my name is mentioned in find-
ing the solution.
There are Republican solutions and
ideas that are focused on innovation,
not regulation, not taxation, focused
on freedom and the innovation that we
have had.
So I just come to tell you, Mr. Presi-
dent, that there are solutions, and the
Republicans will continue to offer
them. We had a hearing most recently
just last week on something called the
USE IT Act—again, to capture carbon
and to sequester it. We have been
working on new-age nuclear power,
working with leaders around the world.
We passed that, and it was signed into
law—an innovation bill for nuclear
power, new-age nuclear power that will
be in small reactors, safer reactors,
cheaper to use, no carbon whatsoever.
So there are absolute solutions, and
Republicans are going to continue to
come to the floor, but we are not going
to support something that would bank-
rupt the country, something that
would raise the cost of energy for fami-
lies, something that would drive people
to the point of having to spend money
they don’t have, having our country
borrow money we don’t have, all at a
time when you say, what is the cause?
There are suggestions and numbers
that have been raised. I haven’t heard
any numbers from the other side of the
aisle.
So I come to the floor to tell you
that Republicans have continued to
offer solutions, and I have been offering
some of these solutions for 10 years. It
took us a while to get these into law,
but they are working. They are work-
ing and have been identified as work-
ing. Even President Obama’s former
Secretary of Energy, Ernie Moniz, who
came and testified to the Energy and
Natural Resources Committee, said
there are two things that would make
a big difference. One is the new-age nu-
clear work that we are doing, and the
other is carbon capture and sequestra-
tion. Those are large-scale products
that work.
I see other colleagues on the floor.
Do I have the floor right now?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming has the floor.
Mr. BARRASSO. Well, as long as I
continue to have the floor, I would like
to point out that we have a booming
economy in this country. In just over a
year, tax relief has helped create 3 mil-
lion new jobs. Manufacturing jobs have
increased for 10 straight months. There
is the fact that we have more jobs
available than there are people looking
for jobs. We have a booming economy.
I want to do nothing that is going to
harm these people all across the coun-
try who are working to have an oppor-
tunity in such a strong, healthy, grow-
ing economy.
This Green New Deal—this Big Gov-
ernment takeover of the economy—it
is masked as an environmental pro-
posal. To me, it is radical. The presi-
dent of the Laborers’ International
Union of North America calls it a ‘‘bad
deal.’’
Take a look at America. We are lead-
ing the world in reducing carbon diox-
ide because of the technological and in-
novative techniques we have had. We
know from what we hear about the
Green New Deal that it is prohibitively
expensive, with predictions of up to $93
trillion. The entire net worth of the
United States—of all the homes and all
the families and everything—is only
$112 trillion, and this alone would cost
$93 trillion. You can go by how much it
is going to cost each individual family.
It is completely unaffordable. It is not
something that is workable. But it is
so far outside the America mainstream
even if it were affordable.
So what we have seen here is the
Democrats take another hard left turn.
Under this Green New Deal, in just 10
years, the Nation’s energy system
would undergo a Washington
makeover. The Green New Deal would
end the use of energy resources that
currently provide power for three out
of five homes and businesses in the
United States. Think about the harm
that would cause the economy. This
Green New Deal mandates the use of
expensive power sources that can’t
keep the lights on. Wind and solar are
important. We need more renewable
energy in this country. But right now,
wind and solar provide less than 8 per-
cent of our electricity.
Should we increase the use of renew-
ables? Absolutely. But eliminating af-
fordable coal and natural gas would be
a costly mistake—and not only that, it
is impossible to do. The electric grid
can’t handle it.
Last month, there was an op-ed in
the Wall Street Journal titled ‘‘The
Green New Deal’s Impossible Electric
Grid,’’ written by Robert Blohm of the
North American Electric Reliability
Corporation. He writes that if the elec-
tric grid relies solely on renewable en-
ergy sources, ‘‘the grid itself may col-
lapse.’’
That is not all we lose if the grid col-
lapses. Our transportation system is in
the crosshairs. The Green New Deal
seeks to transform how Americans
travel. It calls for an extensive and ex-
pensive national, high-speed rail sys-
tem to replace air travel.
The State of California attempted to
build a high-speed rail line between Los
Angeles and San Francisco. It turns
out the price was too high even for
California. The Governor, Gavin
Newsom, just recently canceled the
line between San Francisco and Los
Angeles. Why? He said because of the
massive cost. But it is all part of the
Green New Deal. The question is, If
California can’t afford to build high-
speed rail between two major cities,
how can we afford to build a system
that crisscrosses the country? We
can’t.
The Green New Deal doesn’t stop at
energy and travel; it extends to every
building in the country. Homeowners
are going to be forced to retrofit their
houses, and businesses would have to
do the same.
This is what massive government
overreach looks like.
The rest of the world is going to con-
tinue to pollute even if the country
were to adopt something as extreme as
the Green New Deal. It would cancel all
of the gains we have made in the
United States by the fact that our
emissions continue to go down. In 2017,
we produced just 13 percent of global
emissions here in the United States—
just 13 percent. China and India to-
gether—33 percent. And they are rising
over there. Without dramatic changes
from India and China, global emissions
are going to continue to climb. So even
if all the Green New Deal’s costly man-
dates went into effect, with the punish-
ment to our country and our economy,
there would still be no real effect on
the Earth’s temperature.
So, look, it is no surprise that the
Democrats are trying to duck this big
green bomb. Senate Democrats may
even decide to vote present to avoid
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.029 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1691
March 6, 2019
voting for their own extreme proposal
that a dozen of them have either signed
on to or cosponsored, including just
about every Democratic Senator who is
running for President. They have all
signed on. They are all cosponsoring it.
This green dream is unreachable, but
there is a proven way to reduce our
emissions, which is why I talk about
what we are wanting to do in a positive
way with nuclear energy, with carbon
capture, things that have gathered the
attention of the New York Times and
were on the front page of USA TODAY
on Monday.
So we are going to continue to work
with the FUTURE Act and with the
USE IT Act. The committee is going to
continue to work in a bipartisan way
because Republicans are committed to
finding solutions through innovation,
not taxation, not regulation—solutions
that do not hurt our strong and
healthy, growing economy.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, I rise to
join my colleagues, first of all, in, yes,
opposing this Green New Deal, this
joint resolution, that is full of so many
dangerous policies and positions. But
before I get into my reasons for that,
let me also join my colleague from Wy-
oming in saying I am for the things he
is for and even more—carbon capture,
utilization, and storage, refined coal,
all kinds of ways that we can accom-
plish the same goals together, with re-
alistic proposals, not fantasies.
Let me also say something that
should warm the heart of our colleague
from Massachusetts. The Koch broth-
ers strongly opposed my candidacy and
my election to the U.S. Senate. I owe
them nothing, and I am grateful.
You know, I wasn’t always this pessi-
mistic about the possibilities in this
Chamber. I believe, in fact, that di-
vided government presents an oppor-
tunity for the parties to come together
to find common ground and to have
legislative victories based on shared
goals and shared values. I hope we can
get back to that.
I had hoped for it even on controver-
sial issues, like immigration and
healthcare, and I certainly hoped for it
on energy policy, but when I heard that
the Democrats were proposing this
Green New Deal, I didn’t view it as an
opportunity for political gamesman-
ship. I viewed it as an opportunity to
find common ground, to compromise,
to find balance, and to negotiate the
way that I believe our founders in-
tended it.
I don’t think killing innovators with
something like a Green New Deal is
how we accomplish the goals they say
they are for in their Green New Deal.
You can imagine my disappointment
when I read the contents of this joint
resolution. The Green New Deal is not
serious policy. It is a fantasy. I am per-
sonally disappointed to see so many of
my colleagues on the other side of the
aisle cosponsor this—especially those
who are seeking higher office—and ig-
nore the realities.
Someone earlier mentioned that the
Green New Deal never talks about air-
planes. No, but it does say that we
want to transition to 100-percent re-
newable energy by 2030. Well, I don’t
know how you fly airplanes without
having fossil fuels.
As the Presiding Officer may have
seen, in my State of North Dakota, we
are having a really, really cold winter.
In fact, most of the Upper Midwest is.
The National Weather Service referred
to a stretch of this really cold weather
earlier this winter as a polar vortex.
We call it winter.
Polar vortex or whatever you want to
call it, it has been a rough winter.
Rough winters aren’t rare or new to us,
but this one has been particularly cold.
We were well below zero several days in
a row. In fact, during the polar vortex,
one day the wind chill was well below
50 degrees below. By the way, for those
of you from the South, 50 below is
below zero—zero. It is a really low
number.
But I believe there are some facts
that have been left out related to how
this will affect human health.
On January 1, in Hettinger, ND, it
reached 42 degrees below zero without
wind chill. That is real temperature.
Again, that has happened in many
communities throughout the State.
During these low temperatures, guess
what doesn’t happen. The wind doesn’t
blow, and when the wind doesn’t blow,
windmills stop providing energy, and
they actually start consuming it. When
I was a regulator, I cited a couple thou-
sand megawatts of wind turbines in
North Dakota.
When the energy can’t be produced
by wind turbines, it turns to gas, and,
then, guess what happens. Natural gas
providers have to ask their customers
to curtail their gas consumption be-
cause they need the gas for a more firm
supply of electricity that backs up the
wind turbines.
Again, I was a utility regulator. I saw
this happen a lot, and it happened just
a couple of weeks ago in the Midwest.
Can you imagine that when tempera-
tures drop below minus 22 degrees and
wind turbines stop working? That
means that many North Dakotans, like
my mom and my grandchildren, have
to rely on intermittent electricity to
fill the gap caused by the cutbacks in
gas. Do you see the cycle of this? It is
a circle. One bad thing leads to another
bad thing.
In this situation, it is when—not if—
an electric outage occurs during a
polar vortex, it would be disastrous for
the people of my State and many oth-
ers. This is a serious health risk, and I
do not want my friends and family to
ever wonder if they will be able to
warm their homes when they need it
the most.
Even if the Green New Deal were to
pass, we could never afford it. You have
heard a lot of statements today from
Members about the expected cost of up
to $93 trillion. You can argue that it is
not $93 trillion—that it is only $90 tril-
lion, it is only $80 trillion, or it is only
$50 trillion. It is too much. It is
unaffordable. And $93 trillion is more
than 90 percent of the combined wealth
of all—I said ‘‘all’’—American house-
holds in this country. It would cost
every American family as much as
$65,000 per year, which, as you know, is
more than the average yearly house-
hold income.
A tax-and-spend agenda to pay for an
energy plan that wouldn’t even work
flies in the face of one of our Nation’s
greatest success stories—our domestic
energy production.
To a large degree, the U.S. rocket
ship economy is being driven by the en-
ergy renaissance happening all across
our country, like in my State of North
Dakota. Our strategy of energy domi-
nance encompasses an ‘‘all of the
above’’ approach—harnessing wind, oil,
natural gas, solar, nuclear, and, yes,
coal potential.
Millions of Americans are employed
by energy development, and that num-
ber is only expected to grow.
In fact, in 2020 the United States will
become a net energy exporter for the
first time. At the same time, emissions
have steadily decreased over the years,
and it serves as a very important na-
tional security hedge. Why would we
halt this positive momentum and sty-
mie promising solutions?
The key to a better energy future is
not taxation regulation but innovation
and empowerment, as so beautifully ar-
ticulated by my friend from Wyoming.
Ms. STABENOW. Would my friend
from North Dakota pause for a ques-
tion?
Mr. CRAMER. If these recent polar
vortexes and cold winters taught us
anything, it is that we have a well-
rounded energy policy that encourages
the best ideas. We need to be pragmatic
and collaborative to find solutions.
That is not what defines this Green
New Deal. It is unrealistic, unwork-
able, and unaffordable.
I hope we never become so lopsided
that my friends, neighbors, and family
back home are unable to turn the heat
on when they need it the most.
I yield the floor.
Ms. STABENOW. Will my friend from
North Dakota be willing to yield for a
question?
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). The Senator from Arkansas.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I am
grateful for the opportunity to echo
my colleagues’ concerns about the
Green New Deal.
We are here because the majority
leader has indicated that the Senate
will be considering this misguided pro-
posal in the coming weeks.
You would think our colleagues on
the other side of the aisle would be ec-
static about the idea of a Senate vote
on a resolution that essentially com-
passes their party’s entire platform. In-
stead, the minority leader is scram-
bling to conceive ideas that will give
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.030 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1692 March 6, 2019
his caucus members cover instead of
embracing a plan. I can see why.
The Green New Deal didn’t quite re-
ceive the celebration Democrats were
expecting when it was announced. Its
release was greeted with a combination
of bewilderment, amusement, and con-
fusion, which gave way to anger and
disbelief the more Americans learned
about it.
This is understandable. People don’t
tend to react positively when you
threaten to upheave their lives by
eliminating their jobs, outlawing their
vehicles, and demanding they essen-
tially build their homes to whatever
standards Democrats in Washington
decide.
If you ask most Americans if govern-
ment control over almost every aspect
of their lives is the direction they want
to see the Nation take, the answer is
an overwhelming no. Yet that is ex-
actly what the Green New Deal seeks
to do under the pretense of ending cli-
mate change.
The authors of the Green New Deal
and its accompanying memo suggest
their plan is the cure for all of soci-
ety’s ills. They cast themselves as sav-
iors who will end global warming, in-
come equality, and depression in one
fell swoop. The Green New Deal will
guarantee every American free
healthcare, college tuition, and a job
with a ‘‘family-sustaining’’ wage.
That last part isn’t even required to
receive the benefits promised by the
Green New Deal. If an able-bodied per-
son is unwilling to look for work, the
government would provide ‘‘economic
security’’ under the plan.
What supporters can’t say is how
they will implement this, what impact
it will have on the average American,
and where the trillions of dollars it will
cost will come from. These details are
important when you are asking for sup-
port of a plan that is estimated to cost
up to $93 trillion and dramatically ex-
pands the Federal Government’s reach
into the daily lives of every American.
Single moms, seniors, and those liv-
ing on fixed incomes—the very people
whom the Green New Deal supporters
purport to help—will be the most nega-
tively impacted by this proposal.
Getting the majority of our Nation’s
energy from renewable sources is cer-
tainly a worthy goal. However, you
cannot brand a $93 trillion, all-encom-
passing liberal wish list as an energy
plan and expect it to be embraced with
no questions asked.
Only a fraction of this plan deals
with climate change, but its energy
mandates are entirely unworkable. The
Green New Deal dictates that the Na-
tion will rely 100 percent on renewable
power within a decade. Experts say it
is impossible to accomplish this by
2050, much less within a constricted 10-
year timeline.
The way forward to solve our envi-
ronmental challenges should be driven
by positive incentives, research, and
development, not heavyhanded regula-
tion.
The uncomfortable truth for the
Green New Deal proponents is that the
United States is already leading the
charge on reducing carbon emissions.
We can continue to build on that
progress and encourage change within
the international community without
mandating a government takeover of
nearly every sector of our economy.
As a member of the Environment and
Public Works Committee, I have long
advocated for an ‘‘all of the above’’ ap-
proach to energy security. This strat-
egy includes wind, renewable biomass,
hydroelectric and solar power, and it
absolutely needs to include the expan-
sion of nuclear power, which the Green
New Deal mysteriously leaves out.
These are the right ways to respon-
sibly address our energy needs. The
Green New Deal—which makes undeliv-
erable promises, proposes to dramati-
cally drive up costs for every Amer-
ican, and eliminates thousands of jobs
in the energy sector—is not the way to
go. The Green New Deal will result in
a staggering loss of jobs. It redistrib-
utes wealth on a scale our Nation has
never seen before. It calls for a massive
government takeover of our Nation’s
economy and culture. Worst of all, it
hides all of this in a fanciful energy
modernization scheme that can’t be
achieved in the manner it is written.
The Green New Deal is not a serious
plan. The Senate should whole-
heartedly reject it when it comes be-
fore us.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
Ms. STABENOW. Thank you, Mr.
President.
Mr. President, I am here on the floor
to ultimately speak regarding Mr. Re-
adler’s nomination, but I do want to re-
spond to my colleagues. It is hard to
know where we begin because so much
is said that doesn’t make any sense. It
is made up. It is ridiculous.
What I wanted to address as my col-
league was speaking was where it said
in the Green New Deal that we couldn’t
have ice cream. I have looked every-
where. I like ice cream, and I was
shocked that we weren’t going to have
ice cream. Sure enough, there is no-
where where it says that they are out-
lawing ice cream.
For people who like cheeseburgers
and milkshakes, I don’t see anything in
there about that either.
As the lead Democrat in the Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry Com-
mittee, who works with farmers every
single day and appreciates the great
work they are doing to stop carbon pol-
lution, I would just have to say that it
is pretty silly, if it weren’t so serious,
how the Republican majority and the
Republican leader are mocking what is
probably the most serious issue of our
time.
There are many things that I care
about and the people in Michigan care
about, but if we don’t get a handle on
what is happening on this erratic and
dangerous weather, it is going to affect
every part of our economy and every
part of our way of life.
So if the majority leader or others
want to say that we are declaring a war
to outlaw air travel or the military or
ice cream, that is absurd and would be
funny if the whole subject weren’t so
serious.
By the way, in addition to that, the
Republican majority leader said that
we want to end air travel and cow
farts. By the way, just for the record,
cows don’t fart; they belch.
The fact is that this mocking the se-
rious, serious issue of our time, where
we can’t get the majority to join us on
a simple resolution to say that climate
change is real, that it is man-made,
and that we need to act and that we
have a responsibility to our children
and our grandchildren to act. Let’s
start there.
I don’t want to hear that somehow
the world is coming to an end if there
is a proposal that passes and not have
something in its place that addresses
what is actually happening in terms of
the threats to all of us, our families,
our States, and our economy.
This is real. This subject is real. It
needs a real discussion. We can have
differences. We will have differences on
how to address it, and that is fine—but
to mock the whole subject of what is
happening right before our eyes. We
have to make up new names now for
weather events in Michigan. Not only
do we have polar vortexes where the
cold is rolling down because of the
warming in the Arctic, but we have cy-
clone bombs or bomb cyclones—I am
not sure which it is—but it is weather,
wind events, that come at 60, 80 miles
an hour into a community like a cy-
clone bomb. We are having to make up
new terms for what is happening right
in front of us.
So I would hope that when it comes
to this discussion on what happens
with the weather and climate change,
that we would put aside the games,
stop making stuff up, and have a seri-
ous discussion about how we can come
together, create new jobs, move the
economy, stop carbon pollution, and
make sure our kids and grandkids ac-
tually have something to be proud of.
NOMINATION OF CHAD A. READLER
Mr. President, I now want to speak
about the Readler nomination. I have
often said that healthcare isn’t polit-
ical; it is personal. Being able to take
your child to the doctor when they get
sick is not political; it is personal.
Being able to manage chronic condi-
tions such as diabetes, heart disease,
and high blood pressure with quality
medical care and prescription medicine
is not political; it is personal. Being
able to count on your medical insur-
ance to cover you if you get sick is not
political; that is personal.
That is why, when the Trump admin-
istration nominates people for powerful
positions who waged war on
healthcare—you want to talk about
somebody going to war. We have some-
one who waged war on healthcare who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.032 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1693
March 6, 2019
we are about to vote on, on the Senate
floor. I take that very personally, and
the people of Michigan take it person-
ally too.
I will be voting no on Chad Readler,
President Trump’s nominee for the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Cir-
cuit. I want to take a moment to ex-
plain why.
The Sixth Circuit covers Ohio, Ken-
tucky, Tennessee, and my own State of
Michigan. In this unending parade of
terrible judicial nominees, Mr. Readler
stands out. It is not just that he de-
fended restrictive voting laws in Ohio
or that he voiced support for giving mi-
nors the death penalty—young people
the death penalty—or that he argued
that State and local governments
shouldn’t be allowed to pass laws to
protect our LGBTQ friends and neigh-
bors from discrimination, no, Mr. Re-
adler’s appalling views, if imple-
mented, would touch every single fam-
ily in Michigan.
At the Department of Justice, Mr.
Readler has led efforts to dismantle the
Affordable Care Act, including protec-
tions for people with preexisting condi-
tions. In fact, he is the architect of the
argument in Texas v. United States;
that if the requirement that people
have health insurance is found uncon-
stitutional, then protecting people
with preexisting conditions is also un-
constitutional. Perhaps ‘‘architect’’ is
the wrong word, given that architects
build things, and Mr. Readler is solely
devoted to tearing them down.
His argument is, of course, nonsense.
It is also terrifying for Michigan fami-
lies. Just imagine what Mr. Readler’s
goal could mean for the family of a
child with diabetes, asthma, or cancer.
Parents could find themselves with no
insurance coverage for a child who
needs chemotherapy to survive. Fami-
lies could once again run up against
lifetime limits that mean a child with
complex medical issues could reach her
lifetime limit by age 2 or 3. Parents
could spend a lifetime worrying about
a child who would never be able to
qualify for health insurance as an
adult.
Of course, moms and their daughters
would be charged more if being a
woman was once again treated as a pre-
existing condition. All of these things
routinely happened to Michigan fami-
lies during the bad old days when in-
surance companies were in charge of
our healthcare prior to the Affordable
Care Act. Now Mr. Readler wants to
bring those bad old days back.
However, that is not the end of Mr.
Readler’s noxious views. He is just as
toxic when it comes to education.
In my State, Education Secretary
Betsy DeVos made a name for herself
undermining our public education sys-
tem. Well, you can call Chad Readler
the Betsy DeVos of Ohio. Mr. Readler,
as chair of the Ohio Alliance for Public
Charter Schools, pushed school privat-
ization and fought oversight over
Ohio’s troubled charter schools. He
fought oversight of the troubled char-
ter schools.
He fought to eliminate the part of
Ohio’s Constitution that guarantees
Ohio students will receive ‘‘a thorough
and efficient’’ education. In short, he
would eliminate the right to public
education in Ohio.
He proposed language that would ex-
clude LGBTQ students from discrimi-
nation protections in Ohio schools, and
while at the Department of Justice, he
defended Betsy DeVos when she de-
layed implementation of rules aimed at
helping students who are victims of il-
legal or deceptive tactics by colleges.
They were victims of illegal or decep-
tive practices by colleges, and he sup-
ported stopping that relief.
Michigan families who have children
with preexisting conditions deserve
better than Chad Readler. Michigan
students who have been targeted by un-
scrupulous colleges deserve better than
Chad Readler. Michigan folks who have
business before the U.S. court of ap-
peals certainly deserve better than
Chad Readler.
In my judgment, he has no business
being a judge with a lifetime appoint-
ment, and I know a whole lot of Michi-
gan families who agree. I am voting no,
and I encourage my colleagues to do
the same.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, as the
longest serving Member of the Senate
and also the former chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, I feel com-
pelled—and I normally don’t come
down and speak about these things—
but I want to warn about the destruc-
tion of long-held norms and traditions
that have protected the Senate’s
unique constitutional role with respect
to lifetime judicial appointments.
This is an extraordinary responsi-
bility on the part of the U.S. Senate.
The Constitution quite properly allows
any President to nominate whomever
they want for a lifetime position on
our Federal courts, but as our Found-
ers said, the Senate has to give advice
and consent because of the effect of
this person’s lifetime position. They go
way beyond the term of the Senators
who vote for them and the term of the
President who nominates the person.
In fact, until recently, and certainly
during the years I have served here,
Members of this body knew well they
had a say when it came to who serves
in the Federal courts in their States. It
didn’t matter whether you had a Re-
publican or Democratic President or a
Republican or Democratic majority in
the Senate; blue slips protected the
prerogative of home State Senators
and gave meaning to the constitutional
requirement of advice and consent. It
ensures fairness but, more impor-
tantly, I think it also ensured comity
in the Senate. That now is fast becom-
ing history, and I fear it is going to do
lasting damage to the Senate.
What is happening is a disingenuous
double standard. When I was chairman
of the Judiciary Committee at the be-
ginning of the Obama administration,
every single Senate Republican, includ-
ing many serving today, signed a let-
ter. They made the case for the impor-
tance of the blue-slip tradition. They
said it was absolutely imperative that
it be respected during the new adminis-
tration, the Obama administration.
The Republicans said: We must do this.
Well, I didn’t need any reminder be-
cause under my chairmanship during
both the Bush Republican administra-
tion and the Obama Democratic admin-
istration, I respected the blue-slip tra-
dition without exception, even when it
was not politically expedient to do so.
I respected Republicans and Democrats
alike. Regardless of who was in the
Oval Office, under my chairmanship,
not a single judicial nominee received
a hearing without first receiving both
home State Senators’ positive blue
slips.
I defended the blue slips, and that
was unpopular in my own party on oc-
casion, but I believed in both their con-
stitutional and institutional impor-
tance. I also believed in the preroga-
tives of home State Senators and the
need to ensure that the White House
works in good faith with those Sen-
ators. I believed then, and I still be-
lieve now, that certain principles mat-
ter more than party. Something that,
unfortunately, some, probably because
they are new here, don’t understand.
All of us, whether Democratic or Re-
publican, should care about good-faith
consultation when it comes to nomi-
nees from our home States. The rea-
sons are principled and pragmatic. We
know our State better than anybody
else. We know who is qualified to fill
lifetime judicial seats. They are going
to have a tremendous impact on our
communities. We know the men and
women who are qualified. Without blue
slips, nothing prevents our State selec-
tion committees from being completely
ignored by the White House. Nothing
would even prevent a New York or
California lawyer from being nomi-
nated to a Texas court or vice versa.
Yet the Senate is abandoning this
protection. Senators of the Republican
Party who promised they would uphold
it, gave their word they would uphold
it, asked me to uphold it, have sud-
denly broken their word. That bothers
me.
Last week, for example, for the first
time in the history of this body, a
nominee was confirmed to a seat on the
circuit court over the objections of
both home State Senators. That is the
first time in our history that has hap-
pened. That meant my friends on the
other side of the aisle had to break
their word from what they agreed to
before.
This week, we are voting on two ad-
ditional nominees, Chad Readler and
Eric Murphy, who are opposed by an-
other home State Senator, Mr. BROWN.
Senator BROWN made extensive efforts
to reach a compromise with the White
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.033 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1694 March 6, 2019
House on these two Sixth Circuit va-
cancies, but the White House was not
interested.
The White House knew the Repub-
licans would not keep to the position
they expected Democrats to keep when
we were in the majority, and because
they knew they could rely on Members
of their own party not to follow tradi-
tion for the first time, they didn’t even
try. The White House didn’t even try to
consult. Even superficial consultation
is an afterthought.
Senator BROWN then attended the
confirmation hearings. He spoke
against these nominations. He cited,
among other things, Mr. Readler’s un-
precedented actions attacking
healthcare protections while serving in
the Trump Justice Department.
Mr. Readler was willing to reverse
Justice Department policy and sign a
brief undermining protections for pre-
existing conditions when career Justice
Department officials—career officials
who have been there in both Repub-
lican and Democratic administra-
tions—refused. They refused to reverse
their well-established Justice Depart-
ment policy. He, however, was per-
fectly willing to throw it away in
court. Is this somebody we expect to be
fair on the court?
Senator BROWN cited Mr. Murphy’s
longstanding support and advocacy for
restrictive voting laws in Ohio. He
knows that his constituents will have
to live with the ramifications if these
nominees are confirmed. It will di-
rectly affect the State. He expressed
his concerns about their records, and
his voice, in this process as a U.S. Sen-
ator, was ignored.
These votes come on the heels of the
Senate’s confirming a 37-year-old
nominee for the Fourth Circuit who
has practiced law for less than 10
years—a grand total of 9 years. She
now holds a lifetime judgeship on an
appellate court, just one step below the
Supreme Court. Her confirmation hear-
ing made a mockery of the Senate’s
duty of advice and consent.
It marked the first time in the Judi-
ciary Committee’s history—the first
time ever that a nomination hearing
was held during the October recess over
the objections of the other party. We
found out why.
Only two Republican Senators at-
tended the hearing, and the ques-
tioning lasted only 20 minutes for
someone who demonstrated no abilities
to serve on the Fourth Circuit. They
knew it didn’t make any difference
whether she had the abilities or knew
what she was doing. All they knew is
that this White House had nominated
her, so let’s rubberstamp this.
Frankly, the Senate should never
function as a mere rubberstamp for
nominees seeking lifetime appoint-
ments to our Federal judiciary. We
shouldn’t do it whether there is a Re-
publican or a Democrat in the White
House. That is exactly what we are
doing with a Republican President and
a Republican majority. No matter
whether the person is qualified, if the
name comes up, rubberstamp it.
When I chaired the Judiciary Com-
mittee, many Senators—Republican
Senators—expressed both publicly and
privately their appreciation for the
fact that my respect for blue slips pro-
tected their rights and gave meaning
to advice and consent. Many told me
this is the way it must always be,
whether Republicans or Democrats are
in the majority.
Well, their about-face, now that they
control the Senate, is unbecoming, and
it basically says that the Senate will
just bow down to the executive branch.
We will give up our responsibility, we
will give up our authority, and we will
just be rubberstamps. We might as well
not even bother to show up; just do
whatever we are told. It is deeply dis-
appointing.
I know the pressure because many of
my Republican friends have told me to
rubberstamp President Trump’s nomi-
nees. I know my warnings will fall on
many deaf ears, even for those who
promised me they would not do this.
I have served in the Senate long
enough to know that political winds
tend to change direction. Inevitably,
the majority becomes the minority,
and the White House changes hands. I
suspect that many of my Republican
colleagues who care about this institu-
tion, as do I—and there are many—are
going to live to regret many of these
actions.
The further down this path the Sen-
ate goes, the harder it is going to be to
unring this bell. A vote for Mr. Readler
or Mr. Murphy is a vote to say that we
abandon our abilities as home State
Senators to serve as a check not just
on this President but any future Presi-
dent, Republican or Democrat. Basi-
cally, we are saying that we don’t be-
lieve in advice and consent. Basically,
we are saying that we don’t believe in
the Senate being the conscience of the
Nation. Basically, we are saying that
we don’t believe the Founders of this
country knew what they were doing
when they said the U.S. Senate—this
body of 100 people—has to represent 325
million Americans and that we don’t
believe they should have any responsi-
bility, have any say in lifetime ap-
pointments.
If we abandon longstanding tradi-
tions and chase partisan expediency, I
remind everybody that provides only
fleeting advantage. It inflicts lasting
harm on this body. It is within our
power to stop it right here and right
now.
I urge all Senators to ensure that
home State Senators are provided the
same courtesies during the Trump ad-
ministration that they received from
both Republican and Democratic judi-
ciary chairmen during the Obama ad-
ministration. I believe we can do that.
I ask my fellow Senators to oppose Mr.
Readler’s and Mr. Murphy’s nomina-
tions because they were done so out of
the way that they should be done. Let
the U.S. Senate, all of us, Republicans
and Democrats, say that we are not a
rubberstamp to any President. We
don’t take our orders from any Presi-
dent. We don’t bow and scrape for any
President. Let’s act like Senators, not
like a rubberstamp.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO FRANZ WUERFMANNSDOBLER
Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I come to
the floor today to recognize a true pub-
lic servant, an individual who has been
by my side since my first year as a
Senator, someone who will be dearly
missed, not only in my office but by
this institution as a whole as he moves
on to his next chapter this week: my
deputy chief of staff and senior policy
advisor, Franz Wuerfmannsdobler.
Franz has had a great impact on this
institution, on the staff members who
served here over the last two decades,
and on me. His sage advice, his pa-
tience, his incredibly calm demeanor,
his willingness to mentor and guide
others, his respect for this institution,
and his knowledge borne out of 20 years
of experience in the Senate have con-
tributed in countless ways to the
meaningful work we have been able to
do here for the people of Delaware and
our country.
Today, I want to recognize and thank
Franz for his remarkable and his self-
less career. I want to thank him for
what he has done for me, for my office,
for the people of Delaware, and pay
tribute to the legacy he leaves.
It is a remarkable legacy. He has
been on the frontlines of events and
policy battles that have quite literally
shaped the history of our country over
the last two decades—from 9/11 to the
passage of the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act, from energy and ap-
propriations efforts to sustained con-
cerns and engagement around biparti-
sanship.
Franz’s career in the Senate began in
1998 when he served as a legislative as-
sistant for the late, great Senator Rob-
ert Byrd of West Virginia, who was
himself a giant of this body. For 8
years, Franz handled issues from en-
ergy to environment, to climate
change and natural resources. It was
also in Senator Byrd’s office that
Franz cut his teeth on the complex ap-
propriations process, learning from the
master appropriator himself.
Franz’s career then took him to the
office of former Senator Byron Dorgan
of North Dakota, where he was a trust-
ed senior energy policy advisor, and
then on the Senate Energy and Water
Appropriations Subcommittee before
finally joining my own office in March
of 2011.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.034 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1695
March 6, 2019
Franz’s list of legislative accomplish-
ments is long and impressive and re-
flects his deep grasp of policy and the
mechanics of politics. He helped to
shape elements of the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 and the Energy Independ-
ence and Security Act of 2007. He was
central to establishing reformed fuel
economy standards for our Nation’s
automobiles and played a key role in
the Recovery Act, a massive effort that
helped pull our Nation out of the
depths of a recession.
Franz is a person of ideas and vision.
His vision for our country has led to
policies that have made our Nation
cleaner, more innovative, and more se-
cure. Likewise, his vision in my Senate
office has made our team more effi-
cient, more effective, and more suc-
cessful. Franz has played a key role in
shaping my office early on, helping to
create a team-based structure and the
positive culture of our legislative staff.
He also introduced me to the valu-
able concept of having an office built
around and relying on expert legisla-
tive fellows, including, in particular,
fellows from the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, whose
incredible expertise and deep knowl-
edge in scientific matters has been in-
valuable in advancing technology and
science policy in my last 8 years. In
total, Franz has mentored more than 15
fellows during his time in the Senate—
13 of them are AAAS fellows in my own
office, and they have attested individ-
ually and collectively to the reach,
scope, and power of his guidance and
mentorship to them.
Franz is also a master of appropria-
tions—an arcane process that even the
most seasoned legislative veterans
should admit that they don’t com-
pletely understand. He brought his
wealth of experience to our team, tak-
ing the reins of the Federal budget and
appropriations process and building
from the ground up the complex and
detailed appropriations system that we
use to this day. There is no question
that Franz’s expertise and the time he
dedicated to building this meticulous
system has made me a more effective
member of the Senate Appropriations
Committee and led to countless wins
for the State of Delaware—from fund-
ing for critical transportation improve-
ments and investments in our first re-
sponders to support that has helped to
establish and enhance the NIIMBL
manufacturing institute of the Univer-
sity of Delaware and to fully fund
science and R&D projects around the
country and in my home State.
Beyond Franz’s technical expertise,
nothing better exemplifies his char-
acter than the patience and dedication
with which he has taught others about
the appropriations process. Each year,
Franz hosts ‘‘Appropriations Bootcamp
101‘‘ to teach new staff members the
ins and outs of this riveting and com-
plex process. He takes the time to ex-
plain it, to get into the weeds, and to
answer question after question. Franz
has also taken his show on the road in
my home State of Delaware, meeting
with State, local government, and com-
munity stakeholders to explain the ap-
propriations process and help to secure
more funding for our State. He has
even developed a legendary method for
teaching staff about appropriations by
using bags of marbles to explain fund-
ing allocations for each Appropriations
subcommittee. For the record, the leg-
islative branch gets just one marble.
Franz’s patience extends far beyond
the annual appropriations process. He
always maintains his cool and has a
striking and calming presence, even in
the most trying of circumstances. One
of those more trying circumstances oc-
curred at a staff outing just a few years
ago. Franz had driven a couple of other
members of our team, and on their way
home, his car broke down. The group
decided to push start the car, going
down a hill to get momentum, while a
junior staffer manned the wheel. Unfor-
tunately, the lack of power steering
made it impossible to turn the wheel.
After a good strong push, the car rolled
right down the hill and into a tree.
Franz very calmly said: Don’t worry
about it. It is not a problem; it is all
going to be fine—even when the front
end of his car was unrecognizable.
Franz’s response to that situation, his
cool and calm demeanor, is char-
acteristic of the grace he has imparted
on all of us, even in some of the most
tumultuous times here in the Senate.
One of the unique things about Franz
is that whenever you meet somebody
who knows him or has worked with
him, they talk about the ways in which
he has gone out of his own way to help
them and mentor them over the years.
So many people in the Senate view
Franz not just as a friend or colleague
but as someone who they know has
helped them in their careers and some-
one who has shown them the ropes and
invested time in supporting them and
helping them succeed. One member of
my team described it this way:
Franz has an uncanny ability to take the
time necessary to help. He enables us to do
our jobs and do them well. We get meaning-
ful things done, and that’s because of the
wisdom Franz has imparted.’’
In an environment here in the Senate
that is at times fast paced, Franz takes
the time to invest in younger people.
He sees potential in staff and imparts
knowledge and experience, even when
there is more than enough to keep him
busy just meeting his own commit-
ments. For example, Franz took it
upon himself to create a manual for
the new fellows who work in my office
every year. The manual, which should
be required reading for every new Sen-
ate staffer, describes how to write a
bill and important things about the
process of working in the Senate.
He also maintains the Capitol Hill
Urban Dictionary, which he shares
with new staff and interns to help them
decode internal Senate jargon, includ-
ing oft-used, but rarely explained
phrases like ‘‘en bloc’’ or ‘‘move the
needle.’’ It explains, for example, what
to do when asked: Do you have lan-
guage on that.
Franz embraces the importance of
teaching the next generation of Capitol
Hill staff how to do their job well. I
think that is truly his greatest leg-
acy—the remarkable diaspora of
younger staff members he has believed
in, invested in, and helped to train who
are now working everywhere from the
Senate to the House, to the Depart-
ment of Defense, to running a non-
profit in Kenya.
Each year, Franz and his wonderful
wife Lisa host an annual gathering at
their home for a growing community of
current and former fellows and, lit-
erally, dozens of colleagues—folks who
have shared experiences, who care
about policy, who like a good geeky
joke, and who enjoy helping each other
and developing and sustaining each
other’s careers.
That is just the kind of person Franz
is. He has impacted so many people—
something that was never more evident
than at his wedding to Lisa a few years
ago, which I was deeply honored to
have the chance to officiate. In addi-
tion to their friends and family, guests
that day included former Senator Dor-
gan, folks who had mentored Franz
early in his career, dozens of individ-
uals he mentored himself, and people
from all walks of life who support
Franz and Lisa and care about them. It
was a testament to the community
they have created, both inside and out-
side the Senate.
Franz cares deeply about this institu-
tion. He cares about policies, and he
cares about people. He is always look-
ing for ways to bridge the partisan di-
vide and make this broken place work
better. It hasn’t always been easy. Like
many of us, Franz has struggled with
the slowing pace of legislative progress
in the Senate in recent years and its
increasingly divisive nature. It says so
much about him and about his faith in
us and in this institution that he is
leaving his Senate career to go work on
these very issues, helping to lead the
Bipartisan Policy Center in advancing
bipartisan policy solutions to address
the challenges facing our Nation and
the institution of the Senate.
He has made such a mark that he is
known throughout this institution by a
single name. Few people are known by
just one name—Bono, Noah, Cher,
Franz. With Franz’s leaving the Sen-
ate, I promise to continue to do my
part here to bridge what divides us
where we can and to do the important
work required of us. That includes pas-
sage of the Master Limited Partner-
ships Parity Act, important bipartisan
legislation that will level the tax play-
ing field for clean energy, which Franz
has worked on for Congress after Con-
gress as long as I have been here—work
that I intend to finish.
While I am sad today to see Franz
leave my office in the Senate, he will
be deeply missed by everyone on my
staff and everyone who has benefited
from his wisdom, but I am also excited
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.037 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1696 March 6, 2019
to see the inspiring things he will ac-
complish in his next chapter.
I want to thank Franz for his dedica-
tion, his leadership, and his expertise. I
want to thank his family for sharing
him with us these past 8 years in my
office and these 2 decades here in the
Senate. He inspires me every day to be
a better and more thoughtful, more
careful, and more caring legislator. He
leaves a deep and positive impact on
all of us that we will not soon forget.
Thank you, Franz. You will be deeply
missed.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today in opposition to three cir-
cuit court nominees who will receive
votes on the floor this week: Allison
Jones Rushing, nominated to the
Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals; Chad
Readler, nominated to the Sixth Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals; and Eric Mur-
phy, also nominated to the Sixth Cir-
cuit.
I want to begin by addressing how
these nominations were handled and
the ongoing disregard for Senate norms
and traditions by Republican leader-
ship. Most notable is the change in how
blue slips are treated. Blue slips work.
The blue slip ensures that the interests
of home State Senators are respected
when it comes to judicial nominees
from their States.
Honoring blue slips helps guarantee
that the White House nominates well-
qualified, mainstream individuals to
key seats on the circuit and district
courts, and it prevents the selection of
nominees who do not reside in the cir-
cuit in which they are slated to serve.
In the past century, before President
Trump took office, only five judges had
ever been confirmed with only one blue
slip; two were by a Democratic chair
over the objection of a Democratic
Senator, not over the objection of a Re-
publican, then in the minority. The
other three instances occurred when a
Republican chairman overruled a
Democratic Senator.
In fact, Democratic chairs have never
moved a judicial nominee to confirma-
tion over the objection of a Republican
Senator. Let me say that again: Demo-
cratic chairs have never confirmed a
judicial nominee without a blue slip
from a Republican Senator.
However, since President Trump took
office, 10 circuit court nominees have
received hearings, and four have been
confirmed over the objection of Demo-
cratic home State Senators. In just
over 2 years, Republicans are on their
way to doubling the number of judges
confirmed over the objection of home
State Senators than have been con-
firmed in the last 100 years.
This week we are considering both
Mr. Readler and Mr. Murphy who lack
blue slips from Ohio’s Senior Senator,
my friend and colleague Senator
BROWN.
Senator BROWN’s opposition was not
unreasonable; in fact, Senator BROWN
worked with the White House for weeks
in an effort to find consensus picks for
the Sixth Circuit.
But the White House refused to co-
operate, and he was left with no choice
but to withhold his blue slip. In doing
so, Senator BROWN said: ‘‘I cannot sup-
port nominees who have actively
worked to strip Ohioans of their rights.
Special interests already have armies
of lobbyists and lawyers on their side,
they don’t need judges in their pock-
ets.’’
Further, when the majority did move
forward on the nominations of Mr.
Readler and Mr. Murphy, the two ap-
peared on the same panel at the same
hearing. With 5-minute rounds of ques-
tioning, these stacked circuit court
hearings make it all but impossible for
Senators on the committee to thor-
oughly vet judicial nominees, and that,
in turn, makes it impossible for this
body to fulfill its obligation of pro-
viding advice and consent.
Ms. Rushing’s nomination is also the
product of a departure from Senate
norms. Then-Chairman GRASSLEY held
Ms. Rushing’s hearing on October 17,
2018, during an extended Senate recess.
Only two Senators questioned Ms.
Rushing, and no Democrats were
present to question the nominee.
These process violations matter.
They matter because they impact the
quality of the nominees we are consid-
ering and the ability of the nominee to
reflect the State and community to
which they are being nominated.
We have already seen several nomi-
nees who have had no judicial experi-
ence, and others with no trial experi-
ence whatsoever. We have seen nomi-
nees who have been rated unqualified
for lack of experience and also for lack
of judgement, ethical problems, and
issues with impartiality and tempera-
ment.
This isn’t a partisan issue. This is an
issue that should concern Senators
from both sides of the aisle. At a time
when Americans increasingly distrust
the institutions of our government, we
should not be degrading the Federal ju-
diciary with unqualified and ideolog-
ical nominees.
Turning to the nominees themselves,
I first want to discuss Allison Rushing.
Ms. Rushing is only 36 years old. In
fact, she has practiced law for only 9
years. She has never tried a case in the
Fourth Circuit, the court to which she
has been nominated, and she was not
even admitted to practice in the
Fourth Circuit until 2017; yet she is
being nominated to serve on a Federal
circuit court.
Even in her limited experience, Ms.
Rushing has demonstrated strong ideo-
logical views. For instance, in 2013, Ms.
Rushing spoke about the Supreme
Court’s decision to strike down a key
provision of the Defense of Marriage
Act. She claimed that Justice Kennedy
had written ‘‘the opinion in a unique
way that calls it bigotry to believe
that homosexuality does not comport
with Judeo-Christian morality.’’
Ms. Rushing also demonstrated her
hostility to the rights of employees in
a brief she submitted in a 2018 Supreme
Court case. Ms. Rushing argued that
employment agreements requiring em-
ployees to waive their rights to go to
court as a condition of employment
should be allowed, even though most
people don’t have a choice to turn
down a job.
Ms. Rushing’s view prevents employ-
ees who have entered arbitration agree-
ments from bringing lawsuits against
their employers, even if the employers
have violated their rights or fired them
against the law.
As the dissent pointed out, Ms.
Rushing’s position risked leading to
‘‘the under-enforcement of federal and
state statutes designed to advance the
well-being of vulnerable workers.’’
I next would like to address the nom-
ination of Chad Readler. Mr. Readler
previously headed the Justice Depart-
ment’s Civil Division. In that position,
he defended some of the most troubling
policies this administration has imple-
mented. He defended the President’s
decision to end the DACA program, the
policy to separate immigrant children
from their parents, and the President’s
Muslim travel ban.
Most concerning, however, is that
Mr. Readler led the administration’s
efforts to overturn the Affordable Care
Act. Mr. Readler argued that the
healthcare law’s protections for pre-
existing conditions should be struck
down. Even Senator LAMAR ALEXANDER
called the arguments made in Mr.
Readler’s brief ‘‘as far-fetched as any
I’ve ever heard.’’
Finally, the Senate is voting on Eric
Murphy to the Sixth Circuit. As the
chief appellate lawyer for the State of
Ohio, Mr. Murphy led the State’s de-
fense of its law banning same-sex mar-
riage, which was struck down by the
Supreme Court in Obergefell v. Hodges.
Jim Obergefell wrote an op-ed recently
saying: ‘‘Barely four years ago, Mr.
Murphy made a forceful argument that
my marriage was unconstitutional. As
the attorney tasked with defending
Ohio’s discriminatory ban on same-sex
marriage, he used dog-whistles . . . [I]f
Murphy had been successful, [my hus-
band] and I, and tens of thousands of
couples like us, would have been denied
the right to marry and forced to live as
second-class citizens.’’
Mr. Murphy also led Ohio’s defense of
restrictive voting laws, including the
Ohio law allowing the State to purge
eligible voters if they missed voting in
just one Federal election, and he has
amassed a troubling record on women’s
reproductive rights, arguing for in-
stance in support of a 20-week abortion
ban, which he claimed would create ‘‘at
most, an incidental burden’’ on a wom-
an’s right to make her own reproduc-
tive health care decisions.
The three nominees before the Sen-
ate exemplify the Trump administra-
tion’s efforts to stack our courts with
nominees who are far outside the judi-
cial mainstream. I believe they will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.038 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1697
March 6, 2019
not protect the rights of all Americans
and should not be confirmed. I will
vote no on each of these nominees, and
I hope my colleagues will do the same.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
NOMINATION OF CHAD A. READLER
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I rise to
speak on the judicial nomination com-
ing up and the cloture vote on the
other nominee.
With both nominees, I offered the
White House cooperation to choose two
more moderate nominees for Ohio, both
of whom had been vetted by a bipar-
tisan commission Senator PORTMAN
and I had, and the White House said
they would rather pick these two ex-
tremist judges—these two young, far-
right judges who have attacked Amer-
ica’s healthcare and have attacked the
consumer protection on preexisting
condition.
Judges are making decisions right
now—in this body, fortunately, as
Members of the Senate, we all have
good coverage and health insurance—
that try to take insurance away from
millions of Americans and several
thousands in my State, even as they
have tried to eliminate the consumer
protections for those people who have
preexisting conditions. There are mil-
lions of Americans who are anxious
about holding onto their insurance be-
cause they get sick a lot and it is ex-
pensive to take care of them. They are
afraid of having their insurance can-
celed, and they can’t get insurance be-
cause of a preexisting condition, and
this Congress tried to repeal that law
and it failed.
Now, Senator MCCONNELL has turned
to the Federal Judiciary, and the
President of the United States seems
to think the only way to eliminate the
consumer protection for those with
preexisting conditions is through the
Judiciary. Judges are making decisions
right now on voting rights, on civil
rights, on women’s rights, LGBT
rights, on healthcare, on sentencing,
and on corporate power—decisions that
could limit those rights for a genera-
tion.
We know that the Federal Judiciary
already puts its thumb on the scales of
justice to support corporations over
workers, to support Wall Street over
consumers, and to support insurance
companies over patients. We know that
the Federal Judiciary and the Supreme
Court have done that dozens of times.
We know that the Federal Judiciary,
increasingly, is looking like a group of
far-right, young, detached people who
never go out and get their public opin-
ion pass, as Lincoln said. They never
consider what the public wants in this
country.
Chad Readler, the nominee whom we
will vote on in a moment, took it upon
himself as a Jones Day lawyer—one of
the greatest law firms in the country,
headquartered in Cleveland—to write
an op-ed as a private citizen saying we
should allow the execution of 16-year-
olds. He actually wasn’t that specific.
He implied it could be even younger
than that. He said we would allow the
execution of teenagers. At a time when
this body—something we should be
proud of—took important bipartisan
steps forward on sentencing reform
that was supported by the White
House, supported by a lot of Repub-
licans, and supported by virtually all
Democrats, how do we turn around and
put someone on the bench for life who
supports executing children? How does
that compute? How we can do that?
He argued on behalf of the far-right
think tank for the elimination of
‘‘Golden Week’’ in Ohio, a period where
people can vote early. They can reg-
ister and vote early. It was passed by a
Republican legislature. It has bipar-
tisan support, but not by this right-
wing nominee who thinks it is OK to
eliminate people’s right to vote and re-
strict it. He defended restrictive voter
ID. He defended the squeezing of provi-
sional ballot laws.
On the eve of the 54th anniversary to-
morrow of Bloody Sunday in Selma,
AL, it is shameful to put on the bench
another judge who will rubberstamp
modern-day literacy tests and poll
taxes. Fundamentally, it is the same
purpose. You find ways to suppress the
vote. You find ways to take people’s
voting rights away. You find ways to
disqualify people who want to vote.
Chad Readler’s record on healthcare
is clear. He has been a ringleader in the
Republican effort to take away the pro-
tections on preexisting conditions for
all Americans. He wrote the White
House’s brief. We all know that now.
He wrote a brief that nobody else above
him at the Justice Department was
willing to do. Three people refused to
write it. One actually resigned. The
next day, he was rewarded by this life-
time appointment as a Sixth Circuit
Federal judge. Remember that. The
White House rewarded him after sug-
gesting that we block the consumer
protections for preexisting conditions
for millions of Americans and for hun-
dreds of thousands in Virginia, Arkan-
sas, and in Ohio. Millions of Americans
would lose their consumer protections
under his views, and the next day the
White House decided to reward him
with a judgeship.
As I said, three career attorneys
withdrew from the case. One resigned
altogether in objection to doing this.
Senator ALEXANDER, our friend from
Tennessee, who sits near where Sen-
ator KAINE is sitting, said this was just
amazingly awful language that Chad
Readler had suggested.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator’s time has expired.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for an ad-
ditional 2 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, judges
are deciding the future of America’s
healthcare right now, the right to vote
right now, civil rights right now,
LGBTQ rights right now, women’s
rights right now. Judges around the
country are deciding that. We can’t af-
ford to put another out-of-the-main-
stream judge on the court—and he is
clearly out of the mainstream among
Ohio lawyers, among Ohio judges,
among Ohio citizens—who will not de-
fend America’s right to healthcare.
I ask my colleagues to think about
the families you promised to vote for.
If any of you in your campaigns, if any
of you in discussions you have had with
your constituents, if any of you in your
public statements, and if any of you
running for office committed that you
would support consumer protections
for preexisting conditions, the only
way you can prove you actually believe
that is by voting no on Chad Readler in
about 1 minute from now. If you really
believe in preserving preexisting condi-
tion consumer protections so you don’t
see in your State—in Tennessee, Vir-
ginia, Arkansas, and Ohio—millions of
Americans lose their insurance, then
your only way to support what you
promise is to vote no on Chad Readler.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Under the previous order,
all postcloture time is expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Readler nomi-
nation?
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from West Virginia (Mr.
MANCHIN) is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 47, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 37 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—47
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.003 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1698 March 6, 2019
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Manchin
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
actions.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth
Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Roy
Blunt, John Cornyn, Joni Ernst,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Steve Daines,
James E. Risch, John Hoeven, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Thune, Pat Roberts, Jerry Moran.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Eric F. Murphy, of Ohio, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Sixth Circuit, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from West Virginia (Mr.
MANCHIN) is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53,
nays 46, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 38 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—46
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Manchin
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 53, the nays are 46.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Cir-
cuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
TRIBUTE TO DON YOUNG
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is
Alaskan of the Week time on the Sen-
ate floor, my favorite time of the week
to talk about someone who has made a
difference in my State. As you know,
and as all the pages know, I try to
come down to the floor every week to
talk about someone who is in Alaska
doing a great job for America, for their
community, for the State, and what I
believe is the best State in the coun-
try. I know we can all debate that.
Some of you might take issue a little
bit with the characterization of the
best State, but we certainly have some
bragging rights on some elements that
make us the most unique State in
America. For example, right now, the
Iditarod, the Last Great Race, is under-
way, with 52 mushers and their dog
teams—up to 14 dogs—barreling for
well over 900 miles across the State of
Alaska toward Nome in some of the
most harsh, difficult, and rugged ter-
rain in the world. That is just one of
the many things that makes us unique.
We have the Iditarod, the Northern
Lights that dance in the sky, commu-
nities that still hunt whales to feed
their villages, which they have been
doing for centuries. We have the most
fish and the longest coastline. As a
matter of fact, our coastline is longer
than the rest of the lower 48’s coastline
combined. We have the tallest moun-
tain in the world, and we have a moun-
tain of a Congressman named DON
YOUNG.
Usually, Alaskans of the Week are re-
served for people who aren’t so visible,
who aren’t legends, who maybe are
doing something in their community
that not a lot of people are noticing.
Today, March 6, 2019, I couldn’t resist
because DON YOUNG, the Dean of the
House, has officially become the long-
est continuously serving Republican in
the Congress in U.S. history. Let me
repeat that. Today, DON YOUNG has be-
come the longest, continually serving
Republican in the Congress—Senate or
House—in the history of the United
States of America. He was already here
when every single Member of Congress
was sworn in. Think about that. For
every Member who has been sworn in,
in the Senate or in the House, DON
YOUNG was here. In fact, according to
Roll Call, there are at least 75 Members
of the House who were not even born
when DON YOUNG came to Washington.
That is an amazing achievement.
He has served Alaska and our coun-
try so well for 46 years that it was only
right to feature him as the Alaskan of
the Week and to make a special Alas-
kan of the Week poster with the young
DON YOUNG and President Ford and
many others and Don in uniform. We
just love DON YOUNG in Alaska.
Congrats to DON.
Where do we begin to talk about Con-
gressman YOUNG and the enormous im-
pact he has had on Alaska and Amer-
ica? Let me start in Central California,
where he was raised on a small ranch.
He began the hard work of ranching
young. ‘‘My dad was a good man,’’ Don
said, ‘‘but he believed that when you
turned 7, you became a hired man.’’ So
he worked sunup to sundown. It was
hot, riddled with snakes, and poison
ivy. When he was still young, his dad
read him the book ‘‘The Call of the
Wild’’ by Jack London. Alaska sounded
really good to DON YOUNG. It was cold,
not hot, and there were lots of dogs. He
loved dogs. There were no snakes and
no poison ivy.
After he got out of the Army in 1959,
the year Alaska became a State, he
heeded the call of the wild and headed
up the Alcan—much of it was still un-
paved—in a brandnew Plymouth Fury.
Alaska would never be the same.
He fought forest fires. He owned a
skating rink for a short time, but the
BIA school needed a teacher in Fort
Yukon, way up in the Interior on the
Yukon River—a place he still, to this
day, calls home and has a home there.
In fact, he jokes that he is the only
Congressman who uses an outhouse
when he goes home. Anyway, he went
to coach and teach fifth grade. He be-
came a trapper, a gold miner, and a
tugboat captain. Eventually, he met
Lou, his wife, who stayed by his side
for 46 years until she passed in 2009.
Now he has found another partner in
Ann. Thank you, Ann, for continuing
to share him with all of us.
DON, with Lou’s prompting, caught
the political bug. He served in the
State House in Alaska. He served in
the State Senate in Alaska. He learned
some good lessons there; namely, that
his time in the State Senate taught
him that he was more of a House guy,
where bills move fast, where elections
are right around the corner no matter
what, and where the action is.
Along the way, they had two wonder-
ful daughters, which to DON are still
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.001 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1699
March 6, 2019
the most important things in his life.
Then Lou talked him into running for
Congress, and with the help of people
like my wife’s grandmother who was an
avid Don Young supporter, he began to
introduce himself to a wider audience.
Due to a tragic airplane accident
that took the life of then-Congressman
Nick Begich, DON YOUNG was appointed
to his seat in 1973. He won the next spe-
cial election, and because he has been
so effective for our State—he passed
more than 90 bills, mostly to help Alas-
ka—and because he knows so many of
our fellow Alaskans by name because
he is fiercely loyal, and because he has
helped hundreds of his fellow Alaskans
since 1973, he has been reelected every
year since. I can’t count how many
elections that is, but it is a lot.
He is consistently ranked among the
Congress’s most effective legislators.
He was just recently ranked the most
effective legislator, No. 1 in the House,
by the nonpartisan group the Center
for Effective Lawmaking. Heck, even
in his freshman year, Ralph Nader said
he was the most powerful Congressman
in the Congress. I imagine that he
came to that conclusion with some
trepidation.
You will not hear DON YOUNG talk
about these things because he doesn’t
like to brag. He is a humble man, so let
me do a little bragging on his behalf.
Nearly everything, and I mean every-
thing, that has advanced Alaska legis-
latively has DON YOUNG’s fingerprints
on them, from the Trans-Alaska Pipe-
line to the Ketchikan Shipyard, to the
many land exchanges—kind of like
what we just did recently on the Sen-
ate floor under Senator MURKOWSKI’s
leadership—to the health clinics dot-
ting our State, to the state-of-the-art
Alaska Native Medical Center in An-
chorage, DON YOUNG has played a crit-
ical part in all of this.
He is tenacious. Just last Congress,
DON YOUNG in the House, and Senator
MURKOWSKI and I in the Senate, finally,
after 40 years, got ANWR opened in
terms of the ability for responsible re-
source development in the 1002 area of
our State.
One of his biggest victories was the
role he played in the Magnuson-Ste-
vens Act, which transformed the Amer-
ican fishing industry. Among other
things, the act created a 200-mile limit
to keep foreign fishermen from plun-
dering our fish and to sustain our fish-
eries. It wasn’t easy to get that bill
passed through Congress. Congressman
YOUNG worked it on the House side,
and Ted Stevens, of course, worked it
in the Senate.
After it passed the Congress, he still
wasn’t finished. President Ford was
considering vetoing this legislation.
His Secretary of State, Henry Kis-
singer, thought it would raise tensions
with key allies, especially Japan and
Korea because they fished 3 miles right
off the shores of Alaska, and we pushed
them out to 200 miles with this legisla-
tion.
So on Air Force One in 1974, I believe,
with a stopover at Alaska, DON YOUNG,
the new Congressman, debated one of
the smartest guys in Washington,
Henry Kissinger, in front of President
Ford on whether the Magnuson-Ste-
vens Act, which would transform our
fisheries, should be vetoed. Kissinger
argued it should; DON YOUNG argued it
should not. Well, guess who won that
debate on Air Force One. Legend has it
that at the end, Henry Kissinger and
DON YOUNG met for a martini after the
debate DON YOUNG won. They are still
good friends today. That is just an-
other example.
DON YOUNG has been good friends
with Presidents and has discussed the
issues of the day with some of the most
important people in the world, but
through it all, he has never lost his
fundamental goodness, sense of fair
play, honor, and his willingness to
reach across the aisle to help another
Member.
He has never forgotten who he works
for. He works for the people of Alaska,
and he has remained a man of the peo-
ple since he was elected. He has never,
not for a second, lost his love for our
great State. He could have done any-
thing, and he chose to stay, year after
year, decade after decade, to serve the
people of our State and the people of
America. He recently said:
Every day I try to do something for some-
body in some group. And every day I try to
learn something new. We all go into the
ground the same way. The only thing we can
leave behind [here on this Earth] are our ac-
complishments.
Well, he has notched numerous ac-
complishments, and he is far from fin-
ished. If I had my guess, I would also
say he is far from finished with some of
his famous theatrics too: brandishing
walrus parts and steel traps on the
floor of the House, maybe an alterca-
tion or two with colleagues that may
or may not involve a sharp weapon,
and campaign commercials that border
on the humorous. DON YOUNG is not fin-
ished speaking his mind and giving us
Alaskans his heart.
It has been an honor to serve our
great State next to this historic figure.
So Congressman YOUNG, for your serv-
ice, for your mentorship, and friend-
ship with me, thank you for all you
have done for all of us in Alaska and in
America.
Congratulations on being the longest
serving Republican in the Congress in
U.S. history today, and even more im-
portant, thank you and congratula-
tions on being our Alaskan of the
Week.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, before I
was elected Governor of Delaware in
1992, I served in the House of Rep-
resentatives for five terms. We have
one congressional seat. Alaska is one of
those States, as the Senator from Alas-
ka knows, that also has one congres-
sional seat.
I got to the House on January 3, 1983,
and one of the first people I met there
was DON YOUNG. We ended up on the
same committee together, not the En-
vironment and Public Works we serve
on today but the Merchant Marine and
Fisheries, which has a lot of the same
jurisdiction as the Environment and
Public Works Committee.
So I remember going to Alaska with
him and a bunch of our colleagues and
just going through Prudhoe and just
seeing all kinds of places around the
Senator’s beautiful State and going
back with my family years later.
My colleague is also a colonel in the
Marines. I call him ‘‘colonel.’’ He
knows that JOHN BARRASSO and I like
music and that every now and then, we
will find some way to work some music
lyrics into what we have to say. In lis-
tening to the Senator talk about DON
YOUNG, it reminds me of a great song
by Bob Dylan, called ‘‘Forever Young,’’
which is a classic song. You can find
anything on the internet these days,
and someone was nice enough to pull
up the first verse of the lyrics of ‘‘For-
ever Young’’ by Bob Dylan.
It goes something like this:
May God bless and keep you always
May your wishes all come true
May you always do for others
And let others do for you
May you build a ladder to the stars
And climb on every rung
May you stay forever young
Forever young, forever young
May you stay forever young
DON YOUNG, congratulations from
your Delaware buddy and former col-
league. Thank you.
What I really think we need to do is
to join hands here in the Senate and
sing ‘‘Kumbaya’’ and get our act to-
gether now that things have calmed
down a little bit from earlier today.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. President, I rise to speak this
afternoon on the need for Congress to
take some bold action in addressing
climate change.
Earlier today, a number of our Re-
publican friends were here on the Sen-
ate floor to chastise the Green New
Deal, which is a resolution that was in-
troduced by my good friend, the junior
Senator from Massachusetts. I came
down and listened for a bit. For a mo-
ment there, the conversation got a lit-
tle bit heated, as our Presiding Officer
may recall and, I am certain, as our
staff recalls. I listened as several of our
Republican friends denounced the reso-
lution and claimed it would bankrupt
the country and, in almost the same
breath, claimed that they supported
climate action without having pro-
vided a whole lot of tangible details
about what actions they do support.
On several occasions, I have heard
our friends on the other side of the
aisle suggest that the Green New Deal
is somehow preventing the Senate from
doing work to produce results on cli-
mate action. If you had watched my
Democratic colleagues and me during
that debate, you would have noticed a
little bit of frustration because we
have long been eager to work with our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:15 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.046 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1700 March 6, 2019
Republican colleagues on climate solu-
tions, and we would gladly welcome the
reality of how we could work in a bi-
partisan way on meaningful climate
actions.
As the adage goes, actions speak
louder than words, and for more than
two decades, the Democrats have tried
to put forth different climate solu-
tions. Some of them have employed
market forces, which is usually my fa-
vorite approach. Some have employed
investing in technology. I like that one
a lot too. Some have also set more
strict standards, and sometimes that is
part of the solution. Yet, when it
comes to generating support for these
policies, we don’t seem to get much
support from our friends on the other
side of the aisle. At least we didn’t
today. I know this because I have spon-
sored quite a bit of legislation. I have
sponsored pieces of legislation that
have enacted many of these policies
that I am talking about.
Despite these repeated setbacks, I re-
main ready; I remain willing; and I re-
main eager to work with our Repub-
lican colleagues to find approaches
that work for them and that work for
our planet. I am going to keep trying.
I am one of those people who doesn’t
give up, and I am not going to give up
in this instance either.
To say that a nonbinding resolution
of bold ideas and ambitious goals is
somehow keeping Congress from taking
real action on climate change, with all
due respect, is just not true. What is
true is that my Democratic colleagues
and I and, quite frankly, I think, the
American people just don’t see the ur-
gency and the passion from our Repub-
lican friends to act on climate change.
What is also true is that our country
can no longer afford political leaders to
give lip service to the growing climate
crisis. We need real action, and we need
it now.
I have a poster here that talks about
extreme weather. I live in a little
State, and we have seen wildfires not
in my State but on the other side of
our country, where one of our sons
lives. We have seen wildfires in Cali-
fornia, Oregon, Washington, and Mon-
tana that have been as big as Dela-
ware—maybe that have been bigger
than Delaware—just in the last year.
We are told that the path that we are
on with respect to global warming and
climate change could, by 2050, give us a
wildfire season that would burn up six
times more forest area each year in
parts of the United States—six times
more—if we stay on the path that we
are on today.
I have another chart here on sea level
rise. Since 1993, sea levels have risen by
3 inches, which doesn’t sound like
much. By 2100, if we do nothing, we
could see the sea level rise by 6 feet or
more. If I had the time, I would explain
the science behind that large, enor-
mous increase. This will cause eco-
nomic devastation along our coasts if
we don’t act. An estimated $3.6 trillion
in cumulative damage to U.S. coastal
properties and infrastructure could re-
sult from rising seas and extreme
weather. I live in a State that is the
lowest lying State in America. The
State is sinking while the seas around
us are rising, and that isn’t a good
combination. For us, this is up close
and personal.
We also raise a lot of corn and soy-
beans, I am told, in Sussex County, DE,
in southern Delaware. We may raise
more soybeans than just about any
county this side of the Mississippi
River. According to the ‘‘National Cli-
mate Assessment,’’ with more frequent
and intense rains that are combined
with rising temperatures, farmers will
be likely to experience a reduction in
corn and soybean yields by up to 25
percent.
I mention this because I talk to a lot
of farmers in our State during the
course of a week or a month, and I
can’t tell you how many times I have
heard this year about the farmers who
planted their crops last spring, a year
ago, and it rained. Then they had to re-
plant. It rained some more, and they
tried to replant again, but it rained
some more, and they were done. From
that point on, they had no crops or
they had greatly diminished crops.
They used crop insurance, which, fortu-
nately, was available. I think that
these facts make clear that every sec-
tor in our economy is or will be dis-
rupted by climate change if we don’t
act now.
We have had a GDP loss. This is the
loss in the GDP from the great reces-
sion of about a decade ago, and this is
the forecast for the GDP loss by 2100 if
we stay on the course that we are on.
Basically, it will be twice as big a hit
to the GDP because of climate change
than what we suffered in the great re-
cession.
Earlier today, there was a common
news release that we put out, and I am
going to quote it. It reads: ‘‘Neither
global efforts to mitigate the causes of
climate change nor regional efforts to
adapt to the impacts currently ap-
proach the scales needed to avoid sub-
stantial damages to the U.S. economy,
environment, and human health and
well-being over the coming decades.’’
Think about that. I am going to read
that again: ‘‘Neither global efforts to
mitigate the causes of climate change
nor regional efforts to adapt to the im-
pacts currently approach the scales
needed to avoid substantial damages to
the U.S. economy, environment, and
human health and well-being over the
coming decades.’’
That is not some statement from
Greenpeace, the Sierra Club, or any
number of environmental organiza-
tions. That is not the statement of any
of my colleagues on this side of the
aisle in the House or in the Senate.
That is right out of the Government
Accountability Office’s high-risk list
that was released earlier today. The
GAO released its high-risk ways of los-
ing money and raising money in our
country. Again, one of the high-risk
areas the GAO identified in this year’s
report was our Federal Government’s
fiscal exposure to climate change risks.
So there you have it from the non-
partisan GAO, which is probably going
to be a surprise to a lot of people.
We have two options here. We can ei-
ther confront this challenge head-on
and reduce carbon emissions, enhance
resiliency, and support clean energy
jobs or we can pretend the science is
not real and do nothing, which will
threaten the future of our children and
our grandchildren. Sadly, with our cur-
rent President in the White House, de-
spite what you may have heard today
again and again, our Republican
friends—not all of them but too many
of them—have taken the latter option.
They have decided repeatedly to re-
treat from this threat and ignore the
clear signs of climate change.
Instead of pursuing ideas to address
climate change and protect Americans
from its effects, we have seen the cur-
rent administration promote policies
that undermine the climate science
and increase our dependency on dirty
energy. These actions threaten U.S.
competitiveness in the global clean en-
ergy economy, and they threaten the
health of every single American. Unfor-
tunately, most of our Republican
friends have been applauding this
President with every one of these ac-
tions.
The Democrats know that we cannot
shrink away from this problem. We
want to build on the work we started
with President Obama and Vice Presi-
dent Biden when their administration
was leading our country and when we
set actions in motion to put our coun-
try on a path of net zero emissions for
carbon.
During the Obama administration,
starting with the Recovery Act right
at the end of the great recession, the
Federal Government provided eco-
nomic incentives and smart regula-
tions to support market investments in
clean energy. Thanks to this work,
consumers are paying less for energy,
and more than 3 million people went to
work today in the clean energy sector
of our country. One of them, until a
couple of years ago, was our older son,
Christopher, who worked for a big com-
pany called Honeywell. The job for him
and the folks with whom he worked
was to work on large building energy
conservation projects all over the
Northeast. He did that for a number of
years.
There are millions of jobs that are
provided in that sector—millions of
good-paying jobs. As folks are dis-
placed, whether they happen to be coal
miners or other folks who are displaced
because of a loss of employment oppor-
tunities in that industry, we have a
moral obligation to make sure that
those men and women are retrained
and retooled so they can do some of
these jobs in which there happen to be
technicians who work in the solar
panel industry—in the solar energy in-
dustry—or in offshore wind or in en-
ergy conservation buildings. There is a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.047 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1701
March 6, 2019
huge amount of waste in buildings, and
a lot of tradesmen and -women can be
employed in that sector.
Just today, though, I met with a
number of folks in the wind industry,
and they talked about the exciting
growth in that industry, including in
offshore wind. I learned that today the
wind and solar industries are, respec-
tively, the first and second fastest
growing sectors in this country. I will
say that again. I learned that today the
wind and solar industry are, respec-
tively, the first and second fastest
growing sectors in this country. I was
surprised to hear that.
Here is another fact. At the end of
2008, before President Obama took of-
fice, wind and other renewables, other
than hydropower, made up about 3 per-
cent of our Nation’s electric-generating
capacity. Think about that. At the end
of 2008, Barack Obama was about to be-
come President. At that time, wind and
other renewables, other than hydro,
made up about 3 percent of our Na-
tion’s electric-generating capacity.
Wind power alone was at 1 percent.
When President Obama and Joe Biden
left office, renewables other than hy-
dropower were hitting 10-percent ca-
pacity, with wind power making up
about 7 percent. I learned today that
wind power is expected to make up al-
most 10 percent of our Nation’s elec-
tricity in 2 years, not in two decades
but in 2 years. We have come a long
way in a hurry, and I think that is only
going to accelerate.
These substantial increases in clean
energy economic opportunities aren’t
the result of markets just being mar-
kets; they were because we put smart
policy in place and because we in this
body invested in smart policy. We had
leadership that believed that climate
change was a threat, and we had an op-
portunity to do something good for our
planet and, at the same time, create
opportunity—job opportunities, em-
ployment opportunities—across the
country, which is what happened.
These advances in clean energy are
great, but much more must be done to
address the growing climate crisis that
we face. That is why the Democrats
continue to support policies that will
reduce our Nation’s carbon footprint,
will help to create a fair economy, and
will support those who are the most
vulnerable to the effects of climate
change.
My hope is that our Republican
friends will translate their words into
actions by joining us in working on
real climate solutions. Once again, I in-
vite all of our Republican colleagues to
join our resolution, which simply
states that climate change is real, that
we as humans have a fair amount to do
with it, and that Congress needs to act.
There are three things—that climate
change is real; that we as humans have
quite a bit to do with that; and that
Congress needs to do something to re-
spond to this threat. From there, let’s
have a meaningful, fact-based debate
as to what actions we must take.
I have a piece of paper that reads for
me to end with this, but I am not going
to end with this. I am going to say this
now and lead into something else. Calls
to take climate action should not di-
vide us. This is an issue that should
unite us—not just our body, the Sen-
ate, not just the Congress, not just the
Federal Government, but our country
and our world.
In Isaiah, in the Old Testament, it
says: ‘‘Come now and let us reason to-
gether.’’ I used to think that was LBJ,
and I found out it was Isaiah, and LBJ
was quoting Isaiah. ‘‘Come now and let
us reason together.’’
We have a robust and an innovative
economy. That is a blessing. We should
meet the climate challenges head-on.
We should work together to make sure
that policies we put in place harness
the talents of the American people,
provide good jobs and wages, and cre-
ate economic opportunities, especially
in communities that need them. It is
not a time for political theater. Let’s
come together and debate solutions.
Our children and their children are de-
pending on us to chart a responsible
path.
I want to say something to our Pre-
siding Officer.
When I was new here, I remember sit-
ting up there and watching a couple of
guys who had been here for a while: a
guy named Ted Kennedy—I think his
chair and his desk were right back
there—a very liberal Democrat, maybe
the most liberal Democrat we had in
the Senate at the time—and a fellow on
the Republican side in like the second
row, about halfway over, MIKE ENZI.
They would come to the floor some-
times when I was presiding as a new
Senator, and I couldn’t believe that
day after day, week after week, month
after month, they would come to the
floor and get all kinds of stuff done.
You had Ted Kennedy, who was maybe
the most liberal Democrat, and you
had MIKE ENZI, who was arguably one
of the most conservative Republicans
we had, and as the leaders of the
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions Committee, they got a ton of
stuff done.
I once asked MIKE ENZI—one day, I
was presiding while he was speaking,
and he talked about the 80/20 rule.
When he talked about the 80/20 rule, I
didn’t know what he was talking
about. After he finished talking, I
asked him to come up to where you are
sitting, Mr. President.
I was presiding, and I said: MIKE
ENZI, what is the 80/20 rule?
He said: That is the secret. That is
why Ted Kennedy and I get so much
done.
I said: What is it?
He said: Ted and I agree on 80 percent
of this stuff, and we disagree on 20 per-
cent of this stuff. We focus on the 80
percent where we agree and set aside
the other 20 percent to come back to at
a later date.
I said: Ah, the 80/20 rule.
I will close with this. I remember
that when I was new here, like the Pre-
siding Officer, some of the people in
the Senate were people whom I had
served with in the House. I knew them.
I had served with some of the people
when I was Governor, and I knew them.
But there were a bunch of people here
whom I didn’t know. So I got here, I
was new, and I would just ask the peo-
ple I didn’t know if I could maybe come
to their office and have a cup of coffee
with them and just talk for a while.
People were very nice to do that.
One of the people I did this with was
Ted Kennedy. I just really didn’t know
him. I remember meeting with him and
asking him if maybe I could come by
his office and have a cup of coffee
sometime.
He said: Fine. We will do better than
that. Come to my hideaway. We will
have lunch together.
I was blown away. Here is this guy
who is a legend, and he is willing to in-
vite me to his hideaway to have lunch.
I went, and I will never forget it. His
hideaway was about three times the
size of mine, and it was like a Kennedy
museum. It was just incredible.
I said: Why is it that so many Repub-
licans want you, Ted Kennedy, a very
liberal Democrat, to be their cosponsor
and to be their dance partner on legis-
lation that needs a Democrat? Why do
so many people want to work with you?
I will never forget what he said. He
said: I think this is the reason, TOM. I
am always willing to compromise on
policy; never willing to compromise on
principle.
That is what he said.
I would say the lesson for us today is
this: We have a problem on this planet.
I think most of us realize this is a real
problem. Our planet is getting hotter,
warmer. We are seeing vestiges of that
every day with this crazy weather we
live with.
DAN SULLIVAN was just on the floor
talking about the Iditarod. It was only
about 2 years ago that they had to
truck snow in to be able to actually
have the Iditarod dog race in Alaska.
There is crazy stuff going on with our
weather. I think some of the policy and
the principle here is that—our planet is
getting warmer, we have something to
do with that as human beings, and I
think we have an obligation here in the
Senate to do something positive about
it. The great news is that we could ac-
tually create a lot of jobs by doing
that, by responding to this challenge.
My hope is that here in the tumult of
today’s debate and maybe the debate
going forward, that we will all keep in
mind MIKE ENZI’s words on the 80/20
rule and that we will keep in mind the
words of Ted Kennedy: always willing
to compromise on policy; never willing
to compromise on principle. Maybe,
guided by their wisdom, we can find a
middle ground and do something good
for not just this body, not just the Con-
gress, not just our country, but good
for our planet and our kids.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.049 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1702 March 6, 2019
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MERKLEY. I ask unanimous
consent that the order for the quorum
call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that all
postcloture time on the Murphy nomi-
nation expire at 12:30 p.m., Thursday,
March 7; further, that if confirmed, the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table and the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action; further, that fol-
lowing disposition of the Murphy nomi-
nation, the Senate resume consider-
ation of the Fleming nomination, the
cloture motion on the nomination be
withdrawn, the time until 1:45 be
equally divided in the usual form, and
the Senate vote on the nomination at
1:45; finally, that if confirmed, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, on
March 4 and 5, 2019, I was unavoidably
absent due to illness during rollcall
votes Nos. 34 and 35. Had I been
present, I would have voted nay.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO SAM MAMET
∑ Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I rise to
honor the career of Sam Mamet, who
recently announced his retirement as
the executive director of the Colorado
Municipal League. Sam spent the bet-
ter half of his adult life working to em-
power communities and local govern-
ments across Colorado. It is not an un-
derstatement to say that every corner
of the State is incredibly grateful for
his work.
Sam joined the Colorado Municipal
League in 1979, when he spearheaded
the organization’s advocacy in the
State capitol. After 26 years in that po-
sition, Sam would go on to spend the
rest of his time in the organization as
its executive director. There, he
worked tirelessly to foster partnerships
across the State and the country that
have benefited Colorado’s 270 towns
and cities. He also spent time as an ad-
junct professor of political science at
CU Denver.
Throughout my time in public serv-
ice, I have always appreciated Sam’s
thoughtful approach to policymaking,
his collaborative spirit, and his unwav-
ering advocacy for our local commu-
nities. When I worked in local govern-
ment, I always knew I could count on
Sam to ensure that our perspective
would be heard at the State and Fed-
eral level. After joining the Senate, I
have had the benefit of his advice
across issues, ranging from infrastruc-
ture to tax policy.
Going forward, I will miss Sam’s wit,
humility, and sense of humor—at-
tributes in short supply in our politics
today.
Although Sam is retiring from the
Municipal League, I suspect he will
continue to serve the State of Colorado
with the same passion that has charac-
terized his career. We wish Sam well in
retirement and extend our deepest
thanks for his lifetime of public serv-
ice.∑
f
200TH ANNIVERSARY OF
WASHINGTON PARISH
∑ Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, today I
wish to acknowledge the 200th anniver-
sary of the founding of Washington
Parish in my home State of Louisiana.
It is a parish filled with determined
and patriotic citizens who work day in
and day out to better our State and our
Nation.
Washington Parish, named in honor
of our first President, is located in the
section of Louisiana known as the
Florida Parishes. The parish govern-
ment was founded on March 6, 1819, and
a few years later, the town of
Franklinton would become the perma-
nent parish seat. The parish covers 676
square miles with the Mississippi State
line serving as the eastern and north-
ern borders.
The area is rich with American his-
tory. In 1814, Andrew Jackson marched
with his soldiers across the Pearl River
and recruited many of the local citi-
zens to join them in the Battle of New
Orleans. The ‘‘Military Road’’ con-
structed by General Andrew Jackson
crossed the Pearl River into present-
day Bogalusa. Records from the War
Department show the future President
and his troops made camp in the area
on November 28, 1814.
As one of the most rural parts of the
State, the parish is known for its pine
forests, rolling hills, and many farms.
The people who call Washington Parish
home are incredibly proud of their
local heritage, good food, and for
hosting the Washington Parish Free
Fair, the Nation’s largest free fair.
I would like to wish the citizens of
Washington Parish a very happy bicen-
tennial and thank them for their many
contributions over the last 200 years to
our beautiful State and to our Nation.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO BRIGADIER GENERAL
COLLEEN MCGUIRE
∑ Mr. DAINES, Mr. President, I have
the honor of recognizing BG Colleen
McGuire, Retired, of Missoula, MT, for
being inducted into the U.S. Army
Women’s Foundation Hall of Fame on
March 7, 2019.
Colleen has stayed true to her Mon-
tana roots, spending her childhood and
collegiate years in Missoula. As a stu-
dent at the University of Montana, she
excelled in the Reserve Officer Train-
ing Corps, ROTC and began her distin-
guished career with the 279th Engineer
Company at Fort Missoula. Upon grad-
uation, she continued to serve her
great country as she earned a commis-
sion in U.S. Army while serving with
the Military Police Corps. Her aca-
demic achievements continued as she
earned a master’s of arts and science
from the Command and Staff College
and a master’s of strategic studies
from the Army War College.
Colleen’s highly accomplished jour-
ney through the U.S. Army consists of
a multitude of leaderships roles as ex-
emplified by her command of troops.
Early in her career, her inspirational
leadership skills were evident as she
led a platoon in Germany and later
taking command of the Bravo Com-
pany within the Law Enforcement
Command of Fort Lewis, WA. Success
in these roles propelled her career, and
in 1998 she was hand-selected to com-
mand the 705th Military Police Bat-
talion, Fort Leavenworth, KS.
One notable chapter in Colleen’s ca-
reer came in the fall of 1993, when she
was assigned as the public affairs offi-
cer for Joint Task Force-Somalia, In
early October, two U.S. Army Black
Hawk helicopters were shot down dur-
ing a covert operation, which launched
a 2-day battle that later became known
as theBattle of Mogadishu. In the
months that followed, Colleen played a
pivotal role in telling the United
States’ story that would later inspire
several books and the movie ‘‘Black
Hawk Down.’’
Perhaps Colleen’s most notable
achievements came as she shattered
glass ceilings across the Army. Epito-
mizing the Montana pioneer spirit, she
was the first female to assume com-
mand of the U.S. Army Criminal Inves-
tigation Command, CID, serve as the
provost marshall General of the Army,
and take command of the U.S. Discipli-
nary Barracks in Fort Leavenworth
KS. Not only did she command with
distinction, but she opened the door for
aspiring women to follow in her foot-
steps. It is fitting that Colleen should
be inducted into the U.S. Army Wom-
en’s Foundation Hall of Fame, and I
am pleased that her accomplishments
will be memorialized as an example for
generations to come.
During her military service, she
earned numerous awards. Colleen’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.050 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1703
March 6, 2019
awards include the following: Legion of
Merit with two oak-leaf clusters, the
Bronze Star Medal, the Defense Meri-
torious Service Medal, the Meritorious
Service Medal with four oak-leaf clus-
ters, the Joint Service Commendation
Medal, the Army Commendation Medal
with three oak-leaf clusters, the Army
Achievement Medal with three oak-leaf
clusters, the Iraqi Campaign Medal, the
Senior Parachutist’s Badge, and the
Army Staff Identification Badge.
After 32 years of dedicated service,
Colleen now resides in Kalispell, MT.
She continues to serve as an inspira-
tional leader in the community. On be-
half of our grateful Nation, I thank her
for her courage and selfless dedication
to others as a hallmark for generation
to come.∑
f
RECOGNIZING JOPLIN HIGH
SCHOOL ROTC
∑ Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. President, today I
wish to commemorate the 100th anni-
versary of the Joplin High School Jun-
ior Reserve Officer Training Corps, one
of the oldest such programs in the
United States.
At a time when our Nation faces ex-
traordinary challenges at home and
abroad, preparing the next generation
is paramount. The future lays in the
hands of our youth. Since 1919, Joplin
High School JROTC has been devel-
oping outstanding citizens for Missouri
through leadership development, dis-
cipline, and service.
Today, less than 1 percent of Ameri-
cans serve in the military; yet, Joplin
High School JROTC has 120 cadets who
are part of the program’s historic leg-
acy under the leadership of Lt. Col.
(Ret.) Joshua Reitz and 1SG (Ret.)
Richard Banks. Some of these cadets
will go on to put the lessons and lead-
ership training they received into prac-
tice through service in the U.S. Armed
Forces. Military service is not only a
career, but a lifestyle full of contin-
uous reward and knowledge. For those
that choose the path of Military Serv-
ice, we should thankful.
To the members of Eagle Battalion, I
urge you to uphold your school’s core
values of truth, honor, and loyalty.
These values may be no guarantee of
popularity, comfort, or success, at
least not as the world defines success;
yet, a life of integrity characterized by
these virtues is a life of which you can
be proud.
The path of leadership is a difficult
one and often lonely. America needs
strong servant-leaders in the next gen-
eration willing to confront the chal-
lenges we face with courage, rooted in
the principles that make our Nation
great.
As your Senator, I have been given
the solemn responsibility to nominate
young women and men for placements
at our Nation’s service academies. It is
a duty I do not take lightly, knowing
that these future leaders will be on the
frontlines of securing American free-
dom. I encourage those of you who
have been a part of Joplin High School
JROTC to seriously consider applying
for one of these highly selective spots.
The program’s legacy of excellence de-
mands that I give your candidacy the
consideration it deserves.
I want to thank Joplin High School
ROTC for their dedication to their
school, to Joplin, to Missouri, and to
our country. Congratulations on the
first 100 years of service, and here is to
the next century of service.∑
f
REMEMBERING KATHLEEN ‘‘MIKE’’
DALTON
∑ Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, she
was a mentor, communicator, histo-
rian, volunteer, role model, and a
friend with an incredible memory of
Alaska history, a journalist, public
servant, a Republican, a woman who
had strong opinions and was not afraid
to express them, a pillar of the commu-
nity, a legend.
This weekend, the Pioneers of Alaska
Fairbanks Igloo will remember Kath-
leen ‘‘Mike’’ Dalton who passed in Jan-
uary at the age of 93. I rise today to
speak in memory of my friend, this
woman named Mike, an oracle of Alas-
ka history and at the same time a fix-
ture of Alaska’s political history.
So how does a girl get the name
Mike? Mike was born to an Irish father
who anticipated that he would have
two children. One named Patricia, the
other named Mike. Problem is that
Mike’s father had little control of the
gender of his children. Mike’s sister,
the first of the children, was named Pa-
tricia. The second, who turned out to
be a girl as well, was named Kathleen,
but that stubborn Irish father would
have nothing of it. Kathleen was
‘‘Mike’’ from the very beginning.
Mike grew up in Arizona. Her father
worked on the Navajo Reservation as a
carpenter and construction worker.
She moved to Tucson to attend Catho-
lic school at age 10 and graduated with
a degree in English from Northern Ari-
zona University in Flagstaff. She fol-
lowed a friend and schoolmate to Alas-
ka, and as they say, the rest is history.
Mike acclimated well to the north
and was quickly introduced to the
sport of dog mushing. She met Jim
Dalton, the son of a pioneer and Klon-
dike gold rush legend and married him
in 1950. Jim was an engineer who
played a major role in development of
the naval petroleum reserve on Alas-
ka’s North Slope. Jim and Mike lived
in Barrow, now the community known
as Utqiagvik, and had two children.
They bought 30 acres in Fairbanks and
built a loghouse. Jim continued to
work on the North Slope. Mike stayed
in Fairbanks to raise the children, but
ever ingenious, she found ways to hitch
a ride to see Jim. She made 12 trips
above the Arctic Circle during the win-
ter of 1968–1969.
Mike chose to live a full life in Fair-
banks. She was a reporter for the Fair-
banks Daily News-Miner, writing the
first draft of Alaska’s post-Statehood
history. She covered all of the big
events: the 1964 earthquake, the 1967
Fairbanks flood, the discovery of oil at
Prudhoe Bay, and the construction of a
500-mile haul road that made oil pro-
duction possible. That road is today
known as the Dalton Highway, in ac-
knowledgment of Jim Dalton’s pio-
neering work on the North Slope. Jim
died in 1977.
While Mike’s writing endeared her to
Alaskans, her greater contribution
may be her decision to rescue all of the
News-Miner’s World War II era photo
archives from a dumpster, after an edi-
tor new to Alaska, determined that
they lacked historic value. Waiting
until dark, she dove in, dusted the
photos off, and preserved them.
She was recruited to stuff envelopes
and lick stamps for Republican can-
didates, the stepping stone to a half
century’s leadership in the Fairbanks
Republican Women’s Club. Her email
list was envied by all.
In 1964, the Fairbanks North Star
Borough, a regional government for in-
terior Alaska, was formed. Mike ran
for a seat on the borough assembly,
which is the borough’s legislative body.
She was the top vote getter. Turning to
a career in government, Mike managed
Senator Ted Stevens’ interior Alaska
field office from 1971–1978. She worked
for another legend, who recently
passed, Alaska State Senator Jack
Coghill, and during the administration
of Governor Jay Hammond, she relo-
cated to Washington, DC, to manage
Alaska’s Washington office.
Returning to Alaska, she devoted her
life to community service. In 1991, she
worked for the city of Unalaska and
helped organize the 50th commemora-
tion of the Japanese occupation of the
Aleutians. She helped organize the first
American delegation visit to the Rus-
sian Far East and the Kamchatka Pe-
ninsula, hoping to improve ties be-
tween Russia and Alaska as the USSR
came apart. Active in the Pioneers of
Alaska, Mike recorded oral histories of
Alaska’s pioneers for the University of
Alaska archives. She repatriated 24
paintings by Alaska’s most famous art-
ist, Sydney Laurence, back to Alaska.
She was active in the campaign to set-
tle Alaska Native land claims and was
one of the first non-Natives to be hon-
ored by the Fairbanks Native Associa-
tion.
Mike was about service to others, not
glory to herself. She would drive 50
miles out of town to give a ride to a
sourdough who needed it, deliver her
prized oatmeal cookies to the seniors,
chase after a dog gone astray. She went
out to fix the culverts that collapsed
under the weight of Alaska winter to
prevent spring floods, and she raised
money for the hospital. She was gen-
erous to newcomers who experienced
difficulties in acclimating and a men-
tor to young women.
Upon Mike’s induction to the Alaska
Women’s Hall of Fame in 2016, it was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.034 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1704 March 6, 2019
remembered that Mike refused to at-
tend an event honoring her 90th birth-
day because she was so adamantly op-
posed to self-aggrandizement.
The Alaska Women’s Hall of Fame
recognized Mike as a ‘‘seemingly tire-
less activist whose efforts have made
waves since her arrival in Alaska from
Arizona in 1949 . . . As for Fairbanks,
her home base for more than half a
century Mike played a major part in
shaping its social, political and eco-
nomic future, as well as the state,
while preserving a valuable part of our
history.’’
I thank my colleagues for the oppor-
tunity to share a brief glimpse into the
extraordinary life of Mike Dalton in
the U.S. Senate today.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 10:02 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bills:
S. 47. An act to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
S. 483. An act to enact into law a bill by
reference.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
At 11:39 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, without amendment:
S. 49. An act to designate the outstation of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in North
Ogden, Utah, as the Major Brent Taylor Vet
Center Outstation.
The message also announced that the
House has passed the following bills, in
which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H.R. 347. An act to extend the authoriza-
tion of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation
Control Act of 1978 relating to the disposal
site in Mesa County, Colorado.
H.R. 762. An act to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to provide for the
dissemination of information regarding
available Federal programs relating to en-
ergy efficiency projects for schools, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 1138. An act to reauthorize the West
Valley demonstration project, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 1271. An act to establish in the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs a pilot program
instituting a clinical observation program
for pre-med students preparing to attend
medical school.
H.R. 1381. An act to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to take actions necessary to
ensure that certain individuals may update
the burn pit registry with a registered indi-
vidual’s cause of death, and for other pur-
poses.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 347. An act to extend the authoriza-
tion of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation
Control Act of 1978 relating to the disposal
site in Mesa County, Colorado; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
H.R. 762. An act to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to provide for the
dissemination of information regarding
available Federal programs relating to en-
ergy efficiency projects for schools, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
H.R. 1138. An act to reauthorize the West
Valley demonstration project, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bills were read the first
time:
H.R. 1271. An act to establish in the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs a pilot program
instituting a clinical observation program
for pre-med students preparing to attend
medical school.
H.R. 1381. An act to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to take actions necessary to
ensure that certain individuals may update
the burn pit registry with a registered indi-
vidual’s cause of death, and for other pur-
poses.
f
ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, March 6, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bills:
S. 47. An act to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
S. 483. An act to enact into law a bill by
reference.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–521. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Nuclear, Chemical,
and Biological Defense Programs) transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a notice of additional
time required to complete a report relative
to the Department of Energy’s National Nu-
clear Security Administration (NNSA) budg-
et meeting the nuclear stockpile and stock-
pile stewardship requirements; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–522. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Productivity Enhancing
Capital Investment (PECI)’’ (RIN0790–AK46)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 5, 2019; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
EC–523. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Standard Rates of Subsist-
ence Allowance and Commutation Instead of
Uniforms for Members of the Senior Reserve
Officers’ Training Corps’’ (RIN0790–AK32) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 5, 2019; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
EC–524. A communication from the Deputy
Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Amendments to the
Timing Requirements for Filing Reports on
Form N–Port’’ (RIN3235–AL42) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 5, 2019; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–525. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, notification of his intent to
terminate the designation of India as a bene-
ficiary developing country under the Gener-
alized System of Preferences program; to the
Committee on Finance.
EC–526. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, notification of his intent to
terminate the designation of Turkey as a
beneficiary developing country under the
Generalized System of Preferences program;
to the Committee on Finance.
EC–527. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Ohio River; Louisville, KY’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2018–
0168)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 13, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–528. A communication from the Assist-
ant Chief Counsel for Regulatory Affairs,
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, Department of Transportation,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Hazardous Materials: Oil
Spill Response Plans and Information Shar-
ing for High-Hazard Flammable Trains
(FAST Act)’’ (RIN2137–AF08) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 1, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petition or memorial
was laid before the Senate and was re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:
POM–11. A resolution adopted by the Leg-
islature of Tompkins County, New York urg-
ing the United States Congress to pass the
Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act;
to the Committee on Finance.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.036 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1705
March 6, 2019
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. COLLINS,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Mr. CASEY, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
COONS, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. COT-
TON, Mr. CRAMER, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Mr. JONES, Mr. KING,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED, Mr. SANDERS,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SINEMA, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mr. TILLIS, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and Mrs.
BLACKBURN):
S. 668. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to waive coinsurance
under Medicare for colorectal cancer screen-
ing tests, regardless of whether therapeutic
intervention is required during the screen-
ing; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MARKEY,
and Ms. WARREN):
S. 669. A bill to protect the rights of pas-
sengers with disabilities in air transpor-
tation, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. 670. A bill to make daylight savings
time permanent, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 671. A bill to amend the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to
transfer certain funds to the 1974 United
Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. BALD-
WIN, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 672. A bill to establish State-Federal
partnerships to provide students the oppor-
tunity to attain higher education at in-State
public institutions of higher education with-
out debt, to provide Federal Pell Grant eligi-
bility to DREAMer students, to repeal sus-
pension of eligibility under the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 for drug-related offenses,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself and Ms.
BALDWIN):
S. 673. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to eliminate the inclusion of option
years in the award price for sole source con-
tracts, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entrepreneur-
ship.
By Mr. CARPER:
S. 674. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to establish a grant program for
the installation of electric vehicle charging
infrastructure and hydrogen fueling infra-
structure along the National Highway Sys-
tem, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr.
HEINRICH):
S. 675. A bill to authorize the Department
of Defense to temporarily provide water
uncontaminated with perfluorooctanoic acid
(PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate
(PFOS) for agricultural purposes to areas af-
fected by contamination from military in-
stallations, and to authorize the Secretary of
the Air Force to acquire real property to ex-
tend the contiguous geographic footprint of
any Air Force base that has shown signs of
contamination from PFOA and PFOS due to
activities on the base, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mrs.
CAPITO):
S. 676. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude certain post
graduation scholarship grants from gross in-
come in the same manner as qualified schol-
arships to promote economic growth; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. WARREN, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. MENENDEZ, and Mr. DUR-
BIN):
S. 677. A bill to amend the Food and Nutri-
tion Act of 2008 to provide for the participa-
tion of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, and
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands in the supplemental nutrition assist-
ance program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
ROUNDS):
S. 678. A bill to declare English as the offi-
cial language of the United States, to estab-
lish a uniform English language rule for nat-
uralization, and to avoid misconstructions of
the English language texts of the laws of the
United States, pursuant to Congress’ powers
to provide for the general welfare of the
United States and to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization under article I, section
8, of the Constitution; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. COR-
NYN, Mr. TESTER, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr.
JONES, Mr. TILLIS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Ms. ERNST, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Ms. SMITH, Mr. CRAMER, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. MORAN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. COTTON, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
RUBIO, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mr.
ROUNDS):
S. 679. A bill to exempt from the calcula-
tion of monthly income certain benefit paid
by the Department of Veterans Affairs and
the Department of Defense; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mr. BARRASSO, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
KING, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. WICKER, Mr.
PETERS, and Mr. ISAKSON):
S. 680. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts
paid for physical activity, fitness, and exer-
cise as amounts paid for medical care; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. RUBIO,
and Mr. WARNER):
S. 681. A bill to establish a new higher edu-
cation data system to allow for more accu-
rate, complete, and secure data on student
retention, graduation, and earnings out-
comes, at all levels of postsecondary enroll-
ment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
SCHUMER, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. SCHATZ,
Mr. WYDEN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CARPER,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. COONS, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HEINRICH,
Ms. HIRONO, Mr. JONES, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED, Ms.
ROSEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. WARNER, Ms. WARREN, and Mr.
WHITEHOUSE):
S. 682. A bill to restore the Federal Com-
munications Commission’s Open Internet
Order and its net neutrality protections; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 683. A bill to establish a voluntary pro-
gram in the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration to encourage consumers to
purchase or lease new automobiles made in
the United States, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. WICKER,
Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. SULLIVAN, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Ms. HASSAN, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Ms. STABENOW, Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, Mr. PETERS, Mr. INHOFE,
Ms. ERNST, Mr. MURPHY, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. CASEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. YOUNG, Mrs. FISCHER, Ms. HAR-
RIS, and Mr. BROWN):
S. 684. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
high cost employer-sponsored health cov-
erage; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mrs. BLACK-
BURN, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 685. A bill to amend the Inspector Gen-
eral Act of 1978 relative to the powers of the
Department of Justice Inspector General; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CARDIN:
S. 686. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide greater access
to higher education for America’s students,
to eliminate educational barriers for partici-
pation in a public service career, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
S. 687. A bill to provide for a temporary
safe harbor for certain failures by individ-
uals to pay estimated income tax; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 688. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to add Flagstaff and Yuma to
the list of locations in which court shall be
held in the judicial district for the State of
Arizona; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. JONES,
Ms. BALDWIN, and Ms. SMITH):
S. 689. A bill to amend the Animal Health
Protection Act to support State and Tribal
efforts to develop and implement manage-
ment strategies to address chronic wasting
disease among deer, elk, and moose popu-
lations, to support research regarding the
causes of chronic wasting disease and meth-
ods to control the further spread of the dis-
ease, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. COONS, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
DURBIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. JONES, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. SCHUMER,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. TESTER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.010 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1706 March 6, 2019
Ms. WARREN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and
Mr. WYDEN):
S. 690. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make the child tax cred-
it fully refundable, establish an increased
child tax credit for young children, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG):
S.J. Res. 13. A joint resolution to repeal
the authorizations for use of military force
against Iraq, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. COONS, Mr.
ROMNEY, and Mr. CRUZ):
S. Res. 96. A resolution commending the
Government of Canada for upholding the rule
of law and expressing concern over actions
by the Government of the People’s Republic
of China in response to a request from the
United States Government to the Govern-
ment of Canada for the extradition of a
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. executive; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. SCHUMER:
S. Res. 97. A resolution establishing the
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis; to
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
S. Res. 98. A resolution establishing the
Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship
Program for the placement in offices of Sen-
ators of children, spouses, and siblings of
members of the Armed Forces who are hos-
tile casualties or who have died from a train-
ing-related injury; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 25
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
25, a bill to reserve any amounts for-
feited to the United States Govern-
ment as a result of the criminal pros-
ecution of Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman
Loera (commonly known as ‘‘El
Chapo’’), or of other felony convictions
involving the transportation of con-
trolled substances into the United
States, for security measures along the
Southern border, including the comple-
tion of a border wall.
S. 61
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
61, a bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for
the personal importation of safe and af-
fordable drugs from approved phar-
macies in Canada.
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 133, a bill to award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal, collectively, to
the United States merchant mariners
of World War II, in recognition of their
dedicated and vital service during
World War II.
S. 157
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr.
INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
157, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permit kinder-
garten through grade 12 educational
expenses to be paid from a 529 account.
S. 179
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 179, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry
out a clinical trial of the effects of can-
nabis on certain health outcomes of
adults with chronic pain and post-trau-
matic stress disorder, and for other
purposes.
S. 186
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 186, a bill to ensure time-
ly completion of the concurrent resolu-
tion on the budget and regular appro-
priations bills, and for other purposes.
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
206, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the female telephone op-
erators of the Army Signal Corps,
known as the ‘‘Hello Girls’’.
S. 208
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 208, a bill to amend title
10, United States Code, to permit cer-
tain retired members of the uniformed
services who have a service-connected
disability to receive both disability
compensation from the Department of
Veterans Affairs for their disability
and either retired pay by reason of
their years of military service or Com-
bat-Related Special Compensation, and
for other purposes.
S. 237
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) and the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were added
as cosponsors of S. 237, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to permit nurse practitioners and phy-
sician assistants to satisfy the docu-
mentation requirement under the
Medicare program for coverage of cer-
tain shoes for individuals with diabe-
tes.
S. 279
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 279, a bill to allow tribal grant
schools to participate in the Federal
Employee Health Benefits Program.
S. 287
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 287, a bill to amend the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962 to impose
limitations on the authority of the
President to adjust imports that are
determined to threaten to impair na-
tional security, and for other purposes.
S. 336
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 336, a bill to direct the Comp-
troller General of the United States to
submit a report on the response of law
enforcement agencies to reports of
missing or murdered Indians.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
433, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve home
health payment reforms under the
Medicare program.
S. 454
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
454, a bill to direct the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to establish the
Office of Rural Broadband, and for
other purposes.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 479, a bill to revise sec-
tion 48 of title 18, United States Code,
and for other purposes.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
500, a bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish, fund, and
provide for the use of amounts in a Na-
tional Park Service Legacy Restora-
tion Fund to address the maintenance
backlog of the National Park Service,
and for other purposes.
S. 504
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from West
Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO), the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER), the
Senator from Montana (Mr. DAINES),
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN),
the Senator from Maine (Ms. COLLINS),
the Senator from West Virginia (Mr.
MANCHIN), the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY), the Senator from
Michigan (Mr. PETERS), the Senator
from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO) and the Sen-
ator from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 504, a bill to
amend title 36, United States Code, to
authorize The American Legion to de-
termine the requirements for member-
ship in The American Legion, and for
other purposes.
S. 521
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 521, a bill to amend title
II of the Social Security Act to repeal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.012 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1707
March 6, 2019
the Government pension offset and
windfall elimination provisions.
S. 546
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Ms. COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 546, a bill to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal
year 2090, and for other purposes.
S. 591
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 591, a bill to assist States in im-
proving guardianship oversight and
data collection.
S. 599
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
599, a bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act with respect to
aliens associated with criminal gangs,
and for other purposes.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator
from Washington (Ms. CANTWELL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 622, a bill to
amend title 10, United States Code, to
repeal the requirement for reduction of
survivor annuities under the Survivor
Benefit Plan by veterans’ dependency
and indemnity compensation, and for
other purposes.
S. 631
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 631, a bill to provide for the
admission of the State of Washington,
D.C. into the Union.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO), the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) and the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were added
as cosponsors of S. 638, a bill to require
the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency to designate
per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances as
hazardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 667
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) and the Senator
from Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 667, a bill to impose
sanctions with respect to the Demo-
cratic People’s Republic of Korea, and
for other purposes.
S.J. RES. 1
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of
S.J. Res. 1, a joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of
the United States relative to limiting
the number of terms that a Member of
Congress may serve.
S. RES. 94
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ), the Senator
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS), the Sen-
ator from Washington (Ms. CANTWELL)
and the Senator from Delaware (Mr.
CARPER) were added as cosponsors of S.
Res. 94, a resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the Depart-
ment of Justice should protect individ-
uals with pre-existing medical condi-
tions by defending the Patient Protec-
tion and Affordable Care Act (Public
Law 111–148; 124 Stat. 119) in Texas v.
United States, No. 4:18-cv-00167-O (N.D.
Tex.), in which the plaintiffs seek to
invalidate protections for individuals
with pre-existing medical conditions.
S. RES. 95
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 95, a resolution rec-
ognizing the 198th anniversary of the
independence of Greece and celebrating
democracy in Greece and the United
States.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. CARPER:
S. 674. A bill to amend title 23,
United States Code, to establish a
grant program for the installation of
electric vehicle charging infrastructure
and hydrogen fueling infrastructure
along the National Highway System,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public
Works.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, Today I
am introducing the ‘‘Clean Corridors
Act of 2019.’’ This legislation author-
izes $3 billion in grant funding to pub-
lic entities for installing electric vehi-
cle charging infrastructure and hydro-
gen fueling infrastructure along des-
ignated corridors.
Earlier this week, Chairman BAR-
RASSO and I sent a letter to the full
Senate requesting Senators’ priorities
for a surface transportation bill reau-
thorization this Congress. The surface
transportation bill is the primary au-
thorizing legislation for the programs
of the Federal Highway Administration
at the U.S. Department of Transpor-
tation, among other programs related
to surface transportation.
As the Ranking Member on the U.S.
Senate Committee on Environment and
Public Works, this legislation is a re-
authorization priority of my own.
Nearly two years ago, the Rocky
Mountain Institute published a report
that said re-installing electric vehicle
charging infrastructure should be,
quote, an ‘‘urgent priority in all states
and major municipalities. Getting it
right will require unprecedented co-
operation by many stakeholder groups.
The time to act is now.’’
I agree. This legislation would pro-
vide grants for the installment of elec-
tric vehicle charging infrastructure
and hydrogen fueling infrastructure
along the National Highway System.
This bill is the product of remarkable
collaboration between stakeholders,
and it will take us one step forward in
reducing emissions, improving air
quality, and enhancing energy security
and fuel choice. This legislation is en-
dorsed by stakeholders from across the
electric vehicle supply chain, including
the National Electrical Manufacturers
Association, Electric Drive Transpor-
tation Association, Edison Electric In-
stitute, Auto Alliance, the American
Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials, and the
American Highway Users Alliance.
As I have stated before, the threat of
climate change is greater than any one
state, or region or country—we all
have to do our part, and the federal
government has a leadership role to
play. By deploying necessary electric
and fuel cell vehicle charging infra-
structure, and supporting growth of
these needed technologies, doing so
will help us lower the rate of emissions
of carbon into our atmosphere.
Even better yet, this legislation will
help us in our efforts to put the United
States back in the driver’s seat of the
world’s clean energy economy, while
creating green manufacturing jobs here
at home. This legislation is a true win-
win for our environment and our econ-
omy, and it is my hope that the Senate
will support this legislation and that it
will be enacted this Congress.
S. 674
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Clean Cor-
ridors Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. GRANTS FOR CHARGING AND FUELING IN-
FRASTRUCTURE TO MODERNIZE
AND RECONNECT AMERICA FOR THE
21ST CENTURY.
(a) PURPOSE; FINDINGS.—
(1) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to establish a grant program to strategi-
cally deploy electric vehicle charging infra-
structure and hydrogen fueling infrastruc-
ture along designated alternative fuel cor-
ridors that will be accessible to all drivers of
zero emission vehicles.
(2) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(A) greater adoption of zero emission vehi-
cles will help—
(i) reduce emissions and improve air qual-
ity;
(ii) enhance the energy security of the
United States by expanding the use of zero
emission fuels;
(iii) enhance fuel choice and utilization of
electric vehicle charging infrastructure and
hydrogen fueling infrastructure in order to
benefit consumers;
(iv) ensure that the transportation infra-
structure of the United States is equipped to
manage the demands and anticipated future
needs of the economy; and
(v) develop a new economic sector in the
United States that will create middle class
jobs;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.018 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1708 March 6, 2019
(B) consumer and business adoption of zero
emission vehicles depends in part on the
availability of reliable and convenient fuel-
ing and charging infrastructure;
(C) electric vehicle charging infrastructure
and hydrogen fueling infrastructure must be
strategically deployed to ensure the deploy-
ment and adoption of zero emission fuels;
and
(D) infrastructure owners and operators
should prepare to meet the charging and
fueling needs of electric vehicles and hydro-
gen vehicles.
(b) GRANT PROGRAM.—Section 151 of title
23, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
the FAST Act, the Secretary shall’’ and in-
serting ‘‘The Secretary shall periodically’’;
(2) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ‘‘pre-
viously designated by the Federal Highway
Administration or’’ before ‘‘designated by’’;
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) by striking ‘‘5 years after the date of
establishment of the corridors under sub-
section (a), and every 5 years thereafter,’’
and inserting ‘‘180 days after the date of en-
actment of the Clean Corridors Act of 2019,’’;
and
(B) by inserting ‘‘establish a recurring
process to regularly’’ before ‘‘update’’;
(4) in subsection (e)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘establishes an aspirational
goal of achieving’’ and inserting ‘‘describes
efforts, including through funds awarded
through the grant program under subsection
(f), that will aid efforts to achieve’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘by the end of fiscal year
2020.’’ and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) summarizes best practices and pro-
vides guidance, developed through consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Energy, for
project development of electric vehicle
charging infrastructure and hydrogen fueling
infrastructure at the State, Tribal, and local
level to allow for the predictable deployment
of that infrastructure.’’; and
(5) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(f) GRANT PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of the Clean Cor-
ridors Act of 2019, the Secretary shall estab-
lish a grant program to award grants to eli-
gible entities to carry out the activities de-
scribed in paragraph (5).
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—An entity eligible
to receive a grant under this subsection is—
‘‘(A) a State or political subdivision of a
State;
‘‘(B) a metropolitan planning organization;
‘‘(C) a unit of local government;
‘‘(D) a special purpose district or public au-
thority with a transportation function, in-
cluding a port authority;
‘‘(E) an Indian tribe (as defined in section
4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304));
‘‘(F) an authority, agency, or instrumen-
tality of, or an entity owned by, 1 or more
entities described in subparagraphs (A)
through (E); or
‘‘(G) a group of entities described in sub-
paragraphs (A) through (F).
‘‘(3) APPLICATIONS.—To be eligible to re-
ceive a grant under this subsection, an eligi-
ble entity shall submit to the Secretary an
application at such time, in such manner,
and containing such information as the Sec-
retary shall require, including a description
of how the eligible entity has considered—
‘‘(A) public accessibility of charging or
fueling infrastructure proposed to be funded
with a grant under this subsection, includ-
ing—
‘‘(i) charging or fueling connector types
and publicly available information on real-
time availability; and
‘‘(ii) payment methods to ensure secure,
convenient, fair, and equal access;
‘‘(B) collaborative engagement with stake-
holders (including automobile manufactur-
ers, utilities, infrastructure providers, tech-
nology providers, zero emission fuel pro-
viders, metropolitan planning organizations,
States, Indian tribes, and units of local gov-
ernments, fleet owners, fleet managers, fuel
station owners and operators, labor organi-
zations, infrastructure construction and
component parts suppliers, and multi-State
and regional entities)—
‘‘(i) to foster enhanced, coordinated, pub-
lic-private or private investment in electric
vehicle charging infrastructure and hydro-
gen fueling infrastructure;
‘‘(ii) to expand deployment of electric vehi-
cle charging infrastructure and hydrogen
fueling infrastructure;
‘‘(iii) to protect personal privacy and en-
sure cybersecurity; and
‘‘(iv) to ensure that a properly trained
workforce is available to construct and in-
stall electric vehicle charging infrastructure
and hydrogen fueling infrastructure;
‘‘(C) the location of the station or fueling
site, such as consideration of—
‘‘(i) the availability of onsite amenities for
vehicle operators, such as restrooms or food
facilities;
‘‘(ii) access in compliance with the Ameri-
cans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C.
12101 et seq.); and
‘‘(iii) height and fueling capacity require-
ments for facilities that charge or refuel
large vehicles, such as semi-trailer trucks;
‘‘(D) infrastructure installation that can
be responsive to technology advancements,
such as accommodating autonomous vehicles
and future charging methods; and
‘‘(E) the long-term operation and mainte-
nance of the electric vehicle charging infra-
structure and hydrogen fueling infrastruc-
ture, to avoid stranded assets and protect
the investment of public funds in that infra-
structure.
‘‘(4) CONSIDERATIONS.—In selecting eligible
entities to receive a grant under this sub-
section, the Secretary shall consider the ex-
tent to which the application of the eligible
entity would—
‘‘(A) improve alternative fueling corridor
networks by—
‘‘(i) converting corridor-pending corridors
to corridor-ready corridors; or
‘‘(ii) in the case of corridor-ready cor-
ridors, providing redundancy—
‘‘(I) to meet excess demand for charging
and fueling infrastructure; or
‘‘(II) to reduce congestion at existing
charging and fueling infrastructure in high-
traffic locations;
‘‘(B) meet current or anticipated market
demands for charging or fueling infrastruc-
ture;
‘‘(C) enable or accelerate the construction
of charging or fueling infrastructure that
would be unlikely to be completed without
Federal assistance; and
‘‘(D) support a long-term competitive mar-
ket for electric vehicle charging and hydro-
gen fueling infrastructure.
‘‘(5) USE OF FUNDS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An eligible entity re-
ceiving a grant under this subsection shall
only use the funds to contract with a private
entity for acquisition and installation of
publicly accessible electric vehicle charging
infrastructure and hydrogen fueling infra-
structure that is directly related to the
charging or fueling of a vehicle in accord-
ance with this paragraph.
‘‘(B) LOCATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE.—Any
electric vehicle charging infrastructure or
hydrogen fueling infrastructure acquired and
installed with a grant under this subsection
shall be located along an alternative fuel
corridor designated—
‘‘(i) under this section, on the condition
that any affected Indian tribes are consulted
before the designation; or
‘‘(ii) by a State or group of States, such as
the Regional Electric Vehicle West Plan of
the States of Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Mon-
tana, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyo-
ming, on the condition that any affected In-
dian tribes are consulted before the designa-
tion.
‘‘(C) OPERATING ASSISTANCE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clauses (ii)
and (iii), an eligible entity that receives a
grant under this subsection may use a por-
tion of the funds to provide to a private enti-
ty operating assistance for the first 5 years
of operations after the installation of elec-
tric vehicle charging infrastructure and hy-
drogen fueling infrastructure while the facil-
ity transitions to independent system oper-
ations.
‘‘(ii) INCLUSIONS.—Operating assistance
under this subparagraph shall be limited to
costs allocable to operating and maintaining
the electric vehicle charging infrastructure
and hydrogen fueling infrastructure and
service, including costs associated with
labor, marketing, and administrative costs.
‘‘(iii) LIMITATION.—Operating assistance
under this subparagraph may not exceed the
amount of a contract under subparagraph (A)
to acquire and install publicly accessible
electric vehicle charging infrastructure and
hydrogen fueling infrastructure.
‘‘(D) SIGNS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to this para-
graph and paragraph (6)(B), an eligible entity
that receives a grant under this subsection
may use a portion of the funds to acquire
and install—
‘‘(I) traffic control devices located in the
right-of-way to provide directional informa-
tion to electric vehicle charging infrastruc-
ture and hydrogen fueling infrastructure ac-
quired, installed, or operated with the grant;
and
‘‘(II) on-premises signs to provide informa-
tion about electric vehicle charging infra-
structure and hydrogen fueling infrastruc-
ture acquired, installed, or operated with a
grant under this subsection.
‘‘(ii) APPLICABILITY.—Clause (i) shall apply
only to an eligible entity that—
‘‘(I) receives a grant under this subsection;
and
‘‘(II) is using that grant for the acquisition
and installation of publicly accessible elec-
tric vehicle charging infrastructure and hy-
drogen fueling infrastructure.
‘‘(iii) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.—The amount
of funds used to acquire and install traffic
control devices and on-premises signs under
clause (i) may not exceed the amount of a
contract under subparagraph (A) to acquire
and install publicly accessible charging or
fueling infrastructure.
‘‘(iv) NO NEW AUTHORITY CREATED.—Nothing
in this subparagraph authorizes an eligible
entity that receives a grant under this sub-
section to acquire and install traffic control
devices or on-premises signs if the entity is
not otherwise authorized to do so.
‘‘(6) PROJECT REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, any project funded by
a grant under this subsection shall be treat-
ed as a project on a Federal-aid highway
under this chapter.
‘‘(B) SIGNS.—Any traffic control device or
on-premises sign acquired, installed, or oper-
ated with a grant under this subsection shall
comply with—
‘‘(i) the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices, if located in the right-of-way; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.022 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1709
March 6, 2019
‘‘(ii) other provisions of Federal, State, and
local law, as applicable.
‘‘(7) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share of
the cost of a project carried out with a grant
under this subsection shall not exceed 80 per-
cent of the total project cost.
‘‘(8) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to carry out this subsection
$300,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2028.’’.
By Mr. CARDIN:
S. 686. A bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to provide great-
er access to higher education for Amer-
ica’s students, to eliminate educational
barriers for participation in a public
service career, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today, I
am introducing the Strengthening
American Communities (SAC) Act of
2019. My bill seeks to expand access to
debt-free public service career path-
ways for Americans who want to serve
their communities, States, or our Na-
tion. No one should be denied the op-
portunity to serve their community as
a law enforcement officer, public
health practitioner, social worker, or
educator based on his or her ability to
afford the rising cost of an under-
graduate education. As Congress moves
towards reauthorizing the Higher Edu-
cation Act this year, I intend for my
bill to be a first step towards cor-
recting public sector workforce dispari-
ties by enabling people to serve their
communities without being hobbled by
massive student loan debt, and by pro-
viding current public servants with the
financial freedom to continue to heed
their calling to service.
Every city, town, and rural commu-
nity in the United States relies on indi-
viduals who choose to utilize their tal-
ents for the betterment of others while
accepting the lower pay of public serv-
ice careers. The very foundation of our
civil society is based on these public
servants making such sacrifices. Far
too many individuals who feel drawn to
public service do not pursue such ca-
reers—or they are forced to abandon
such careers prematurely—due to the
high cost of obtaining their college
educations. When I had the oppor-
tunity to hear directly from a student
at an Historically Black College and
University (HBCU) in my home State
of Maryland, I was saddened to hear
from an academically successful sopho-
more who was planning to drop out of
school because she feared further
indebting herself and her family. She
said that while she appreciated the fi-
nancial assistance she did receive, it
simply wasn’t sufficient to cover her
cost of attendance. While this student
had aspirations to serve in her own
community, she could not bear to bur-
den her family with the cost of her edu-
cation. As a result, my home City of
Baltimore missed out on the talents of
an engaged and aspiring public servant.
Our current system of indebting indi-
viduals at the onset of their careers
has led to minority underrepresenta-
tion in the public sector workforce.
First generation college students and
students from low-income families can-
not afford to take on student loan debt
and enter into lower-paying public
service careers. As a result, our Nation
is deprived of the talents and perspec-
tives of individuals who want to serve
their communities but simply cannot
afford to do so. As a result, our work-
force is less representative of the peo-
ple it serves. We must find new ways
for people to earn the degrees they
need to meet our community needs. I
believe that students who make a com-
mitment to public service should be af-
forded a debt-free pathway to the bac-
calaureate degree they need to start
their public service career just as those
individuals who have already made the
decision to choose service over salary
should not have to wait for ten years in
a lower-paying public service career be-
fore seeing any reward in the form of
federal student loan forgiveness.
The Strengthening American Com-
munities Act I am introducing today
offers a new path for future public serv-
ants to earn their baccalaureate de-
gree. Through a new partnership be-
tween the Federal Government, States,
and public and private, non-profit in-
stitutions of higher education, stu-
dents will have the ability to receive
the first two years of their education
at a community college, Minority
Serving Institution, or Historically
Black College or University tuition-
and fee-free. Colleges would be required
to commit to ensuring student success,
and students would have to meet cer-
tain academic standards and complete
their education within two years. Once
students start their junior or senior
years or transfer into a four-year insti-
tution, those who commit themselves
to at least three years of public service
and meet certain academic standards
will receive a National Public Service
Education Grant to pay a significant
portion of their college’s tuition, fees,
and room and board costs. Universities
must provide students with opportuni-
ties to engage in public service com-
mitments, academic counseling and
student support services, and the op-
portunity to earn to finish their degree
in fewer than two years. Depending on
a student’s financial need, under the
Strengthening American Communities
Act, they may be able to graduate with
a baccalaureate degree debt-free before
embarking on their chosen path to be-
come a public servant.
For those individuals who have al-
ready answered their calling to public
service, my legislation would assist
more public servants continue serving
their communities by accelerating the
existing Public Service Loan Forgive-
ness program. Under current law, these
dedicated workers must work for 10
years in a public service career and
make 120 monthly payments on their
federal student loans before they see a
dime of federal student loan forgive-
ness. Economic, family, and other rea-
sons can cause individuals to leave the
public sector workforce and despite
their years of service, the service these
workers provided are not taken into
consideration. I propose to accelerate
the Public Service Loan Forgiveness
program to provide more immediate
student loan relief. For every two
years of employment and cor-
responding monthly Federal student
loan payments, hard-working public
sector employees will receive a per-
centage of their federal student loans
forgiven, with 100 percent of the federal
student loan balance being forgiven at
the end of 10 years of service. With 99
percent of the initial round of PSLF
applicants being rejected last year for
loan forgiveness due to administrative
barriers and misunderstanding of the
rules of the program, Congress should
work to accelerating Public Service
Loan Forgiveness, therefore encour-
aging additional individuals to stay in
the public sector workforce despite the
lower-paying salaries, reduce their cost
of borrowing for home and auto loans,
and set aside additional money for
their own retirement.
As Congress moves forward with an
overdue reauthorization of the Higher
Education Act, I urge my colleagues to
join in this effort to help individuals
who are wholly committed to public
service by supporting the Strength-
ening American Communities Act. No
individual willing to serve his or her
community in a public service career
should be held back from that calling
due to the high cost of obtaining a col-
lege education. No individual willing to
serve his or her community should be
forced to leave public service because
of financial hardship.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself and
Mr. YOUNG):
S.J. Res. 13. A joint resolution to re-
peal the authorizations for use of mili-
tary force against Iraq, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President. I am
pleased today to introduce in the Sen-
ate, with my colleague Senator YOUNG,
a bipartisan resolution to repeal the
1991 and 2002 Authorizations for Use of
Military Force (AUMF) against Iraq.
This legislation will formally end the
authorizations for the Gulf and Iraq
wars—28 and 17 years, respectively,
after these AUMFs were first passed,
reasserting Congress’ vital role in not
only declaring wars, but in ending
them. The repeal of these authoriza-
tions also recognizes the strong part-
nership the United States now has with
a sovereign, democratic Iraq.
The United States is no longer at war
with Iraq and our legal frameworks
should reflect this reality as much as
our policy frameworks, to include the
Strategic Framework Agreement that
Iraq and the United States signed in
November 2008, which affirms the es-
tablishment of a long-term relation-
ship of cooperation and friendship,
based on the principle of equality in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.022 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1710 March 6, 2019
sovereignty and the rights and prin-
ciples that are enshrined in the United
Nations Charter.
Since 2014, U.S. troops have been in
Iraq, alongside Iraqi forces, at the Gov-
ernment of Iraq’s request for assistance
in combating the Islamic State of Iraq
and Syria (ISIS). Current Administra-
tion officials, including Secretary
Pompeo, Acting Secretary Shanahan
and Commander of the United States
Central Command, General Votel, have
routinely emphasized that United
States military forces remain in Iraq
at the invitation of the Government of
Iraq and in respect to its sovereignty.
Recent presidential administrations
have maintained that the 2002 AUMF
only serves to ‘‘reinforce’’ any legal au-
thority to combat ISIS provided by the
2001 AUMF and is not independently re-
quired to authorize any such activities.
As such, repealing the 1991 AUMF and
the 2002 AUMF would not affect ongo-
ing United States military operations.
It would however, prevent the future
misuse of the Gulf and Iraq War au-
thorizations and strengthen Congres-
sional oversight over war powers.
It is past time to repeal both AUMFs
and formally mark the end of the Iraq
War that resulted in a devastating loss
of life and wounded tens of thousands
of our troops. It makes no sense that
two AUMFs remain in place against a
country that is now a close ally. They
serve no operational purpose, run the
risk of future abuse by the President,
and help keep our nation at permanent
war.
I am proud to join Senator YOUNG in
introducing a bill to repeal these out-
dated and unnecessary authorizations.
I hope we can continue to find bipar-
tisan compromise on these tough war
power issues to include revising and re-
placing the 2001 AUMF.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 96—COM-
MENDING THE GOVERNMENT OF
CANADA FOR UPHOLDING THE
RULE OF LAW AND EXPRESSING
CONCERN OVER ACTIONS BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE’S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN RE-
SPONSE TO A REQUEST FROM
THE UNITED STATES GOVERN-
MENT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
CANADA FOR THE EXTRADITION
OF A HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES
CO., LTD. EXECUTIVE
Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. COONS, Mr.
ROMNEY, and Mr. CRUZ) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 96
Whereas, on December 1, 2018, Canadian au-
thorities detained Huawei Technologies Co.,
Ltd. chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou
based on an arrest warrant issued pursuant
to a request made by the United States
under the Extradition Treaty Between the
United States of America and Canada, signed
at Washington December 3, 1971;
Whereas, on January 24, 2019, the United
States filed a superseding indictment in the
United States District Court for the Eastern
District of New York against Huawei Tech-
nologies Co., Ltd. (‘‘Huawei’’), Huawei De-
vice USA Inc., Skycom Tech Co. Ltd.
(‘‘Skycom’’), and Meng Wanzhou;
Whereas the January 24, 2019, indictment
charges two counts of bank fraud; two counts
of conspiracy to commit bank fraud; one
count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud;
two counts of bank fraud; one count of wire
fraud; one count of conspiracy to defraud the
United States; two counts of conspiracy to
violate the International Emergency Eco-
nomic Powers Act; two counts of violations
of the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act; one count of money laundering
conspiracy; and one count of conspiracy to
obstruct justice;
Whereas the January 24, 2019, indictment
charges that ‘‘Huawei operated Skycom as
an unofficial subsidiary to obtain otherwise
prohibited U.S.-origin goods, technology, and
services, including banking services, for
Huawei’s Iran-based business while con-
cealing the link to Huawei’’;
Whereas the United States Government is
seeking the extradition of Meng Wanzhou;
Whereas Canadian authorities granted
Meng Wanzhou access to Chinese consular of-
ficials, and she was able to engage a lawyer
of her choice and was released on bail pend-
ing the outcome of the extradition hearing;
Whereas the Chinese Ministry of Foreign
Affairs strongly urged Canada ‘‘to imme-
diately release’’ Meng Wanzhou and threat-
ened that otherwise ‘‘it will definitely have
grave consequences, and [Canada] will have
to bear the full responsibility for it’’;
Whereas the Government of the People’s
Republic of China detained Canadian dip-
lomat Michael Kovrig and Canadian execu-
tive Michael Spavor on December 10, 2018, in
apparent retaliation for the arrest of Meng
Wanzhou;
Whereas Michael Spavor and Michael
Kovrig have faced harsh conditions while in
detention that include limited consular ac-
cess, no access to a lawyer, being unable to
turn off the lights at night, and lengthy in-
terrogations, including in the case of Mr.
Kovrig, about his official activities during
his previous tenure as an accredited dip-
lomat in the People’s Republic of China, po-
tentially in violation of the Vienna Conven-
tion on Diplomatic Relations, done at Vi-
enna April 18, 1961;
Whereas, on January 14, 2019, a third Cana-
dian, Robert Schellenberg, in Chinese cus-
tody for drug smuggling, had his case re-
viewed and his 15-year sentence changed to
the death penalty; and
Whereas the Department of State’s Coun-
try Report on Human Rights Practices for
2017 stated that ‘‘[a]rbitrary arrest and de-
tention remained serious problems’’ in China
and that Chinese judges ‘‘regularly received
political guidance on pending cases, includ-
ing instructions on how to rule, from both
the government and the CCP [Chinese Com-
munist Party], particularly in politically
sensitive cases’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commends the Government of Canada
for upholding the rule of law and complying
with its international legal obligations, in-
cluding those pursuant to the Extradition
Treaty Between the United States of Amer-
ica and Canada, signed at Washington De-
cember 3, 1971;
(2) commends the Government of Canada
for providing consular access and due process
for Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. chief fi-
nancial officer Meng Wanzhou;
(3) expresses concern over the Government
of the People’s Republic of China’s apparent
arbitrary detention and abusive treatment of
Canadian nationals Michael Spavor and Mi-
chael Kovrig in apparent retaliation for the
Government of Canada’s detention of Meng
Wanzhou; and
(4) joins the Government of Canada in call-
ing for the immediate release of Michael
Spavor and Michael Kovrig and for due proc-
ess for Canadian national Robert
Schellenberg.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 97—ESTAB-
LISHING THE SELECT COM-
MITTEE ON THE CLIMATE CRISIS
Mr. SCHUMER submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration:
S. RES. 97
Resolved,
SECTION 1. SELECT COMMITTEE ON THE CLI-
MATE CRISIS.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Senate a Select Committee on the Cli-
mate Crisis (in this resolution referred to as
the ‘‘Select Committee’’).
(b) COMPOSITION.—
(1) MEMBERSHIP.—The Select Committee
shall be composed of 16 Senators, of whom—
(A) 8 shall be appointed by the Majority
Leader; and
(B) 8 shall be appointed by the Minority
Leader.
(2) CO-CHAIRPERSONS.—The Majority Lead-
er and the Minority Leader shall each des-
ignate 1 member of the Select Committee to
serve as a Co-Chairperson of the Select Com-
mittee.
(3) DEADLINE.—Not later than 14 days after
the date of adoption of this resolution, the
Majority Leader and Minority Leader shall
each appoint all members and designate the
Co-Chairpersons of the Select Committee.
(4) PERIOD OF APPOINTMENT.—Members
shall be appointed for the life of the Select
Committee.
(5) VACANCIES.—A vacancy in the member-
ship of the Select Committee—
(A) shall not affect its powers; and
(B) shall be filled not later than 14 days
after the date on which the vacancy occurs,
in the same manner as the original appoint-
ment was made.
(6) DEPARTURE OF MEMBER.—If a member of
the Select Committee ceases to be a Member
of the Senate, the member is no longer a
member of the Select Committee and a va-
cancy shall exist.
(c) FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The expenses of the Select
Committee shall be paid from the Contin-
gent Fund of the Senate, in a total amount
of—
(A) not more than $1,500,000 for the period
beginning on the date of adoption of this res-
olution and ending on September 30, 2019;
and
(B) not more than $2,600,000 for the period
beginning on October 1, 2019 and ending on
September 30, 2020.
(2) APPROVAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the expenses of the Select
Committee shall be paid upon vouchers ap-
proved by the Co-Chairpersons of the Select
Committee, in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Senate.
(B) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(i) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(ii) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.025 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1711
March 6, 2019
(iii) the payment of stationery supplies
purchased through the Keeper of the Sta-
tionery;
(iv) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(v) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(vi) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(vii) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(d) STAFFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Co-Chairpersons of
the Select Committee may jointly appoint
and fix the compensation of employees of the
Select Committee in accordance with the
guidelines for employees of the Senate and
following all applicable rules and employ-
ment requirements of the Senate (including
those relating to employees of standing com-
mittees of the Senate).
(2) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Inquiries and Investigations’’ of
the Senate such sums as may be necessary
for agency contributions related to the com-
pensation of employees of the Select Com-
mittee.
(e) JURISDICTION; FUNCTIONS.—
(1) INVESTIGATIVE JURISDICTION.—The Se-
lect Committee shall have the authority to
investigate and make findings regarding how
inaction on the climate crisis is harming the
economic and national security interests of
the United States.
(2) MEETINGS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Select Committee
shall—
(i) meet at the call of the Co-Chairpersons;
and
(ii) hold its first meeting to plan the ac-
tivities of the Select Committee not later
than 30 days after the date of adoption of
this resolution.
(B) AGENDA.—Not later than 48 hours be-
fore any meeting of the Select Committee,
the Co-Chairpersons shall provide an agenda
to the members of the Select Committee.
(3) HEARINGS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Select Committee
may, for the purpose of carrying out this sec-
tion, hold such hearings, sit and act at such
times and places, require attendance of wit-
nesses and production of books, papers, and
documents, take such testimony, receive
such evidence, and administer such oaths as
the Select Committee considers advisable.
(B) ALL HEARINGS PUBLIC.—The hearings of
the Select Committee in connection with
any aspect of its investigative functions
shall be public hearings.
(C) HEARING PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBIL-
ITIES OF CO-CHAIRPERSONS.—
(i) ANNOUNCEMENT.—Not later than 7 days
before any hearing of the Select Committee,
the Co-Chairpersons shall make a public an-
nouncement of the date, place, time, and
subject matter of the hearing, unless the Co-
Chairpersons determine that there is good
cause to hold the hearing at an earlier date.
(ii) EQUAL REPRESENTATION OF WITNESSES.—
Each Co-Chairperson shall be entitled to se-
lect an equal number of witnesses for each
hearing held by the Select Committee.
(iii) WRITTEN STATEMENT.—A witness ap-
pearing before the Select Committee shall
file a written statement of proposed testi-
mony at least 2 days before the appearance
of the witness, unless the requirement is
waived by the Co-Chairpersons, following a
joint determination that there is good cause
for failure to comply with the requirement.
(4) MINIMUM NUMBER OF PUBLIC MEETINGS
AND HEARINGS.—The Select Committee shall
hold not less than a total of 5 public meet-
ings or public hearings.
(5) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—Upon written
request of the Co-Chairpersons, a Federal
agency, including an agency in the legisla-
tive branch, shall provide technical assist-
ance to the Select Committee in order for
the Select Committee to carry out its duties.
(6) COORDINATION WITH STANDING COMMIT-
TEES OF THE SENATE.—The Select Committee
shall, in conducting official business, coordi-
nate with standing committees with relevant
jurisdiction.
(7) NO LEGISLATIVE JURISDICTION.—The Se-
lect Committee shall not have legislative ju-
risdiction and shall have no authority to
take legislative action on any bill or resolu-
tion.
(f) REPORTING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
not later than July 31, 2020, the Select Com-
mittee shall submit to the Senate and any
relevant committee of the Senate a com-
prehensive report of the results of its inves-
tigations and studies, together with such de-
tailed findings as it may determine advis-
able.
(2) SEPARATE REPORTS.—If the Select Com-
mittee is not able to agree to a report de-
scribed in paragraph (1) by a majority vote,
each Co-Chairperson may submit to the Sen-
ate and any relevant committee of the Sen-
ate a report on behalf of the members of the
Select Committee appointed by the Senate
leader that appointed such Co-Chairperson
regarding the results of the investigations
and studies of the Select Committee.
(3) PUBLICATION.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which a report under this
subsection is submitted, the Select Com-
mittee shall make the report publicly avail-
able in widely accessible formats.
(g) TERMINATION.—The Select Committee
shall terminate on October 1, 2020.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, maybe
Leader MCCONNELL doesn’t realize this,
but because of the political stunt vote
he is planning on his version of the
Green New Deal, for the first time in a
long time, the Senate is finally debat-
ing the issue of climate change, and if
you ask me, it is about time.
Climate change is an urgent crisis
and an existential threat to our coun-
try and to our planet. The last 4 years
have been the warmest 4 years on
record. Sea levels are rising. Marine
life and fishing communities are being
destroyed. Wildfires have roared
against the West. More powerful hurri-
canes have buffeted our coastlines.
Over the next few decades, climate
change will affect every part of Amer-
ican life—our health, our economy, our
national security, and even our geog-
raphy. So if there were ever an issue
that demanded particular focus from
this Chamber, it is climate change.
That is why today I am introducing a
resolution to create a select committee
on climate change to correspond with
the House committee that was created
this year for the same purpose.
For the same reason that we dedicate
groups of Senators to focus on health,
national security, judiciary, agri-
culture, and banking, we should have a
bipartisan group of Senators who meet
to focus on climate change, to hold
hearings, to debate the issue, and to
craft, refine, and enact legislation to
address this problem.
I understand that my friends on the
other side of the aisle don’t like the
Green New Deal. OK, that is fine. What
is your plan?
Maybe a lot of Members think they
can get away without having to answer
the question. They will not. They will
not. That is why we need a committee
focused on this to bring Democrats and
Republicans together on an issue that
demands progress. So I will introduce a
resolution to create a new committee
on climate.
Democrats believe this is an issue of
surpassing importance. What do our
Republican colleagues believe? We sin-
cerely hope that our Republican friends
will come around and view it the same
way. Yet we are still trying to get the
Republican leadership, and Repub-
licans in the Senate in general, to an-
swer three key questions. I ask once
again. I have asked them every day.
One, Leader MCCONNELL, do you be-
lieve climate change is real?
Two, Leader MCCONNELL, does human
activity contribute to it?
And, three, should Congress take im-
mediate action to address it?
Our Republican friends are silent—si-
lent. Some have argued that it is be-
cause they get so much money from
the oil industry. Some have argued
that it is because they don’t believe in
science. It is amazing that they can’t
even answer a simple question that is
one of the leading questions of our
time when two-thirds of all Americans
believe that climate change is real and
urgent.
We are not trying to lock our Repub-
lican friends into any one or two solu-
tions. We are not saying: Let’s do it
our way or the highway.
As a first step, we want Republicans,
particularly their leader, to agree with
us that climate change is a problem
that must be addressed. And what do
we get from our Republican friends? Ei-
ther silence or a stunt—putting on the
floor a bill they will not vote for. That
doesn’t say anything. That doesn’t ad-
dress the problem. It is a stunt. That is
all they can do. They can’t come for-
ward with a single positive thing to say
or do. So they put a bill on the floor
that they will not vote for—what a
ruse. What a mocking of the way the
Founding Fathers wanted democracy
to work—it is a disgrace.
That is why we need a committee. At
least let them go forward with a com-
mittee, where Democrats and Repub-
licans can discuss the issue, debate the
issue, and perhaps come up with some
bipartisan solutions. That is what we
hope to achieve when we come to the
floor and ask our friends, sincerely, if
they agree with those three items, be-
cause climate change will not wait for
the partisanship, which so often defines
this Chamber, to ebb. It will not pause
while one party is in power. Its impacts
will not discriminate between red
States and blue States.
It is time to put our party affili-
ations aside and agree that we face a
major crisis that is caused by humans
and that we have an immediate and
glaring need to address it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.026 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1712 March 6, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 98—ESTAB-
LISHING THE CONGRESSIONAL
GOLD STAR FAMILY FELLOW-
SHIP PROGRAM FOR THE PLACE-
MENT IN OFFICES OF SENATORS
OF CHILDREN, SPOUSES, AND
SIBLINGS OF MEMBERS OF THE
ARMED FORCES WHO ARE HOS-
TILE CASUALTIES OR WHO HAVE
DIED FROM A TRAINING-RE-
LATED INJURY
Mrs. BLACKBURN submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration:
S. RES. 98
Resolved,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This resolution may be cited as the ‘‘SFC
Sean Cooley and SPC Christopher Horton
Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship
Program Resolution’’.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD STAR FELLOW-
SHIP PROGRAM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘eligible individual’’ means an
individual who is the child (including a step-
child), spouse, or sibling of a member of the
Armed Forces who is a hostile casualty or
died from a training-related injury;
(2) the terms ‘‘hostile casualty’’ and
‘‘training-related injury’’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 2402(b) of title
38, United States Code; and
(3) the term ‘‘Program’’ means the Con-
gressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Pro-
gram established under subsection (b).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Senate the Congressional Gold Star
Family Fellowship Program, under which an
eligible individual may serve a 12-month fel-
lowship in the office of a Senator.
(c) DIRECTION OF PROGRAM.—The Program
shall be carried out under the direction of
the Secretary of the Senate.
(d) PLACEMENT IN DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
OFFICE OR A STATE OFFICE.—An individual
may serve a fellowship under the Program at
the office of a Senator in the District of Co-
lumbia or an office of the Senator in the
State the Senator represents.
(e) REGULATIONS.—The Program shall be
carried out in accordance with regulations
promulgated by the Committee on Rules and
Administration of the Senate.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. ERNST. Mr. President, I have 11
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, March 6, 2019, at
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled,
‘‘The state of the American maritime
industry.’’
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, March 6, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘The eco-
nomic benefits of highway infrastruc-
ture investment and accelerate project
delivery.’’
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, March 6, 2019, at
10:15 a.m., to conduct a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Protecting American from abuse
and neglect nursing homes.’’
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday,
March 6, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a
hearing on the following nominations:
John P. Abizaid, of Nevada, to be Am-
bassador to the Kingdom of Saudi Ara-
bia, and Matthew H. Tueller, of Utah,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of
Iraq, both of the Department of State.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Wednesday, March 6,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled ‘‘Recommendation to reduce
waste, fraud, and mismanagement in
Federal programs.’’
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, March 6,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled ‘‘Oversight of customs and
border protection’s response to the
smuggling of persons at the Southern
border.’’
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
The Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, March 6, 2019, at 10:30 a.m., to con-
duct a hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of
the Library of Congress.’’
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
The Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, March 6, 2019, at 2:30
p.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
‘‘Small business and the American
worker.’’
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday,
March 6, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a
joint hearing.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
The Special Committee on Aging is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, March 6,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON PERSONNEL
The Subcommittee on Personnel of
the Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, March 6,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that my intern,
Mariah Shriner, may have privileges of
the floor for the balance of the day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 1271 AND H.R. 1381
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there are two bills at the
desk, and I ask for their first reading
en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the titles of the bills for
the first time en bloc.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1271) to establish in the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs a pilot program
instituting a clinical observation program
for pre-med students preparing to attend
medical school.
A bill (H.R. 1381) to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to take actions necessary to
ensure that certain individuals may update
the burn pit registry with a registered indi-
vidual’s cause of death, and for other pur-
poses
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
now ask for a second reading, and I ob-
ject to my own request, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will
receive their second reading on the
next legislative day.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, MARCH
7, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 9:30 a.m., Thursday,
March 7th; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Murphy nomination under
the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order fol-
lowing the remarks of our Democratic
colleagues.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from New Mexico.
f
GOVERNMENT REFORM
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, thank
you for the recognition today.
I rise today for the people. I am glad
to be joined by Senator MERKLEY. We
have worked a long time together on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR6.029 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1713
March 6, 2019
government reform issues, campaign fi-
nance reform, and rules reform—some
very, very important issues that face
the country.
Today, in this country, there is a
deep disconnect between what the
American people are demanding from
their leaders and what the President
and the Congress have been giving
them. Poll after poll shows that the
American people want affordable
healthcare. Yet the Republican leader-
ship and this President have tried time
and again to take away healthcare
rights and healthcare protections.
Poll after poll shows that the Amer-
ican people want good-paying jobs. Yet
the Republican leadership and this
President gave a massive tax-cut wind-
fall to the wealthiest individuals and
the biggest corporations.
Poll after poll shows that the Amer-
ican people want clean air and clean
water. They want Congress to tackle
climate change. They want to protect
our public lands. Yet for years the Re-
publican leadership has done the oppo-
site, and the Trump administration is
dismantling environmental protections
and sabotaging our efforts to fight cli-
mate change.
Poll after poll shows that the Amer-
ican people support commonsense gun
safety laws. Yet for decades the Repub-
lican leadership has refused to take
any action whatsoever on even the
most basic safety laws, like universal
background checks.
Poll after poll shows that the Amer-
ican people want Dreamers to stay in
our country. They don’t want children
separated from their parents. They
want comprehensive immigration re-
form to fix our broken system. Yet the
Republican leadership has opposed
these priorities for many years, and
now this President moves forward with
his divisive and hateful immigration
policies.
It is no wonder that trust in govern-
ment is so low. According to a recent
survey, just 19 percent overall trust the
government to do what is right. Fa-
mously, root canals have a higher ap-
proval rating than Congress.
We are a representative democracy.
Yet the people are not being rep-
resented. Their will has been stymied.
The situation has gotten dramati-
cally worse under this President. There
is no doubt about that. But these prob-
lems precede this President, and they
will live much longer than his time in
office unless we act.
To put it bluntly, some of our most
basic, democratic institutions are bro-
ken—our voting rights system, our
campaign finance system, and our eth-
ics rules.
The American people know in their
gut that this system is rigged. That is
why the drug companies get what they
want, and people pay through the nose.
That is why the millionaires and bil-
lionaires get more tax cuts, and the
working people get left behind. That is
why the polluters get off scot-free, and
the rest of us get dirty air and con-
taminated water.
Unrigging this system requires re-
form—real reform—so that we bring
power back to the everyday Americans
and out of the hands of the special
moneyed interests that rule Wash-
ington.
Let’s talk about how we do that. For
years, I have stood with others in this
Chamber to call for a constitutional
amendment to overturn Citizens
United, for an independent, non-
partisan drawing of House districts,
and for closing the revolving door in
Washington.
In the past, some Senate Republicans
were independent of their leadership
and supported these ideas. The Presi-
dent had even promised to ‘‘drain the
swamp.’’ As we all know by now, unfor-
tunately, that promise was empty.
But with the change in leadership in
the House of Representatives, Congress
is now making progress to enact the re-
forms that the American people want.
The House will soon pass H.R. 1, the
For the People Act—a major reform
package to fix our broken system. It
will be up to the Senate to follow suit.
Next week, my Senate colleagues and
I will introduce our own ‘‘For the Peo-
ple Act’’—a comprehensive set of re-
forms to move this effort forward. I
hope we will have bipartisan support,
but I was disappointed to hear the Re-
publican leader deride this essential re-
form bill as ‘‘the Democrat Politician
Protection Act.’’
This is not only a warped political
comment, but it is also cynical and to-
tally misses the point, especially when
you consider that the American people
overwhelmingly—across party lines—
support these kinds of reforms. It is
the special interests who oppose them
because they are threatened by them.
If the Republican leader feels the
same way about this bill as the special
interests do, perhaps the bill is not the
problem.
Every Member of the Senate will
have a choice. Do they support reform,
where our ideas and policies can com-
pete on a level playing field, or do they
choose to side with the special inter-
ests to do their bidding in return for
their protection and money during
election season?
I have known plenty of Americans
who oppose this system. John McCain
was one of them. Senator Alan Simp-
son is another. Senator Cochran was a
cosponsor of my constitutional amend-
ment.
No party has to side with the big
money and special interests. It is a
choice. It is a choice we must make to-
gether to return our democracy to the
people and to rid our system of corrup-
tion.
This bill will do just that. It will
make it easier, not harder, to vote. It
will bring an end to the dominance of
big money and politics, and it will en-
sure that politicians actually serve the
public interests.
First, on voting rights, for 50 years
the Voting Rights Act of 1965 has stood
as a bulwark against voter suppression
practices and enfranchised millions of
voters, but in 2013 the Supreme Court
eviscerated it in its Shelby County v.
Holder decision, unleashing a torrent
of State laws designed to suppress the
vote among minorities.
The Court’s 5-to-4 decision rendered
the Voting rights Act’s preclearance
provisions ineffective and cleared the
way for States to engage in voter sup-
pression. Since Shelby, nearly 1,000
polling places have been closed across
the country, many in southern Black
communities. Voter ID laws have been
tightened, and early voting has been
slashed. Voter rolls have been purged,
and House districts have been redrawn
to dilute the minority vote.
One of the many egregious examples
is North Carolina. Less than 2 months
after Shelby, that State enacted far-
reaching voter suppression require-
ments. North Carolina’s law was struck
down by a Federal court of appeals,
finding that the law targeted African
Americans ‘‘with almost surgical preci-
sion.’’
Just this last midterm, we saw voter
suppression tactics surge. For instance,
in North Dakota, the State legislature
passed a law right before the November
election that took aim squarely at the
Native vote. The law required voter IDs
to list physical addresses—an impos-
sibility for many Native American vot-
ers living on reservations. A Federal
court found that 5,000 Native American
voters did not have the necessary iden-
tification.
We have no choice but to respond and
to restore the Voting Rights Act so
States are stopped from closing off the
franchise. That must also include the
Native American Voting Rights Act to
address voter suppression tactics in In-
dian Country and to make sure the Na-
tive vote is counted, not discounted.
Bills to restore lost voting rights
protections have been introduced in
both Chambers. I hope the Senate ma-
jority will work in a bipartisan way to
restore this landmark legislation.
We should make it easier for voters
to register, not harder. In a healthy de-
mocracy, automatic voter registration,
online voter registration, and same-day
voter registration for eligible voters
would be noncontroversial.
Voting should be easy. Too often, for
too many, it is hard. It is our duty to
fix that, and this bill will do that.
Extreme political gerrymandering
continues to skew State and congres-
sional elections. Results from legisla-
tive races don’t reflect the proportion
of each party’s voters. Voters should
choose their representatives, not the
other way around.
Congress must direct nonpartisan,
independent line drawing in each State
to draw congressional districts, and
congressional districts must fairly re-
flect States’ racial compositions so our
representative government truly rep-
resents the electorate.
There is no other way to put it. Our
campaign finance system is broken.
The Supreme Court’s 2010 Citizens
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.053 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1714 March 6, 2019
United decision opened the floodgates
for unlimited contributions and dark
money, and this Congress’s negligence
has allowed the flood to drown out reg-
ular people’s voices.
Super PACs can raise and spend un-
limited amounts of money on can-
didates. The super wealthy can and do
try to buy elections. Dark money
groups can receive unlimited amounts
of money from big corporations and
wealthy individuals, spend their unlim-
ited sums to influence elections, and
never disclose their dollars or what
they wanted in return for their invest-
ment.
There was $1.4 billion spent on the
last Presidential race in 2016. This mid-
term’s outside expenditures topped a
billion dollars. The system is rigged
right before our eyes.
How do we reverse course and return
elections to the American people? For
starters, Congress needs to shine a
light on the dark money and require
realtime disclosure, close loopholes
that allow for foreign money, and cre-
ate a small donor, public matching
fund system for everyday contribu-
tions. Most critically, we must over-
turn Citizens United and related deci-
sions. A Supreme Court that equates
big money with speech puts campaigns
for sale to the highest bidder.
Once again, I will offer an amend-
ment to the Constitution to overturn
Citizens United, as I have since 2016.
Congress has a long way to go to push
our popularity above a root canal and
to restore the public’s confidence.
We also need comprehensive ethics
reform. Elected officials and public
servants should not reap huge personal
profit from their public positions. We
need to tighten the revolving door. We
need to tighten lobbying disclosure
laws, and we must require Presidential
and Vice Presidential candidates to
disclose their tax returns.
Beyond that, Presidents and Vice
Presidents must divest of any and all
assets that create a conflict of interest.
Candidate Trump promised to disclose
his tax returns. He didn’t. He then
promised to disclose them after an al-
leged audit. He hasn’t. That is unac-
ceptable.
We know the President has business
and financial ties with Russia and
Saudi Arabia, and this may well ex-
plain his strange closeness with Vladi-
mir Putin and Muhammed bin Salman.
Transparency and divestiture are the
only ways to avoid conflicts of interest
and corruption. These issues go to the
heart of what it means to be an Amer-
ican.
Our democracy is supposed to exist
by the will of the people and by the
consent of the governed. Congress has
an amazing opportunity before it. The
House of Representatives is starting
debate on its comprehensive reform
package. My colleagues and I will in-
troduce our legislation next week.
To Republicans around the country:
Don’t fall for the majority leader’s
cynical name-calling. I know you love
your democracy as much as I do. This
is not about protecting Democrats or
Republicans; it is about protecting
Americans from a rigged system. Let
us commit to work together to pass re-
forms the American people hunger for.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I am
pleased to be here on the floor with my
colleague from New Mexico, who has
been a champion for restoring our de-
mocracy, working year after year over
the last decade toward that vision, and
presenting tonight superb comments
on the history of where we have been
and where we should go.
This last weekend, I went to Ala-
bama. I went with Congressman JOHN
LEWIS to be there to look into the his-
tory of discrimination in our Nation,
the history in which we had separate
entries to buildings for Whites and for
Blacks and separate water fountains.
We had front doors for White America
and back doors for Black America.
We were standing on the spot where
Rosa Parks stood before she stepped
onto the bus and said: I will not sit at
the back of the bus. I will be treated
like every other American. She asked
for equality, and she started a big
movement to break down discrimina-
tion.
Last weekend, we also gathered to-
gether in Selma, AL, at the foot of the
Edmund Pettus Bridge. This spot is
where JOHN LEWIS and a whole set of
individuals took a stand. They were
planning a march. They were going to
march for voting rights—for voting
rights in America, voting rights that
had been taken away as a strategy of
suppressing the voice of the people,
particularly the voice of African Amer-
icans.
We have struggled in the history of
our country toward full equality of op-
portunity—full equality to participate
in this beautiful democratic Republic
we call America. We started with a
Constitution that was flawed by not
recognizing the full equality of every
American.
We fought a war over slavery, and
after that war, a strategy was devised
to continue to strip the right to vote
from African Americans by taking Af-
rican-American men, arresting them as
felons, and then saying that felons
can’t vote—a determined strategy both
to reenslave, because the constitu-
tional amendment said that you could
put people to work if they were a felon,
and to strip voting rights from them.
That is a history we should be put-
ting behind us—a history of voter in-
timidation and a history of voter sup-
pression. Have we not come to the
point where we can recognize that the
real vision in our ‘‘we the people’’ de-
mocracy is that every person gets a
full chance to participate, that we
should be looking for voter empower-
ment, not voter suppression?
This beautiful document we have
worked to perfect and fulfill over time.
It was President Lincoln who said:
‘‘America will never be destroyed from
the outside. If we falter and lose our
freedoms, it will be because we de-
stroyed ourselves.’’
Aren’t we at that point now, where
the vision of government of, by, and for
the people has been corrupted by voter
suppression, by voter intimidation, by
gerrymandering, and by dark money
flooding our campaigns? Aren’t we at
that point now that our very essence of
our constitutional vision of govern-
ment by and for the people is being de-
stroyed by these corrupting forces?
Here is what we have in America
right now. We have a circle of power of
those of great wealth and those of
great privilege, and they want to run
this government and write our laws to
benefit those inside that circle.
That circle isn’t that large. It is a
small percent of our population, but
they use their great wealth and their
great leverage to continue to corrupt
the vision of our Constitution because
the last thing they want is a govern-
ment that serves the people.
What they are invested in, what they
fight for is government by the powerful
few and for the powerful few. If anyone
has any doubt that we have reached
this point of huge corruption in this
country, look simply at what happened
in this Chamber in 2017 when the ma-
jority party said that we have two mis-
sions: Mission one, take down
healthcare for 20 to 30 million Ameri-
cans; mission two, raid the national
Treasury for $11⁄2 trillion and give it to
the very richest Americans and largest
corporations.
That is what happens in a corrupted
government by and for the powerful
rather than by and for the people. That
is what happens in dictatorships
around the world where the elite raid
the National Treasury and steal the
money for themselves.
I will tell you what else happens.
They don’t invest in ‘‘we the people.’’
They don’t invest in the foundations
for families to thrive. We know what
those foundations are: good public edu-
cation, debt-free college, employment
programs that include apprenticeships
and career technical education, a
healthcare system that is simple and
seamless and is there when your loved
one is sick or injured, and it doesn’t
send you into bankruptcy, a system
where drug companies can’t gouge you
and raise their prices dozens or even a
hundredfold because the laws were
written to let them do it, a system
that invests in affordable housing so
every family can have a decent home
in a decent community, investment in
infrastructure, rural broadband, re-
paired highways, expanded transit sys-
tems, all kinds of infrastructure that
enable our economy to thrive and our
people to do well.
Did we see what this corrupted sys-
tem now in place of government by and
for the powerful, did we see an invest-
ment in healthcare or housing or edu-
cation or infrastructure or living-wage
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.054 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1715
March 6, 2019
jobs? We did not because this Chamber
is now run by and for the powerful of
the United States of America, not the
people.
So along comes the other Chamber at
the end of this hall, and this other
Chamber says: We want to restore the
vision of our Constitution, and they
put together H. Res. 1. They said: Let’s
take this on. Let’s take on the gerry-
mandering. Let’s take on the voter
suppression. Let’s take on the dark
money. They put together this bill for
the people—for the people, not for the
powerful.
They proceeded to say: Let’s start
with that challenge of gerrymandering.
Let’s make sure the people pick their
leaders instead of their leaders picking
their electors. Then they proceed to
take on voter suppression and voter in-
timidation.
It was President Lyndon Johnson
who said ‘‘the vote is the most power-
ful instrument ever devised by man for
breaking down injustice.’’
That powerful instrument is at the
heart of our Constitution. It is the in-
strument that the powerful and privi-
leged want to diminish, destroy, and
take away so they can continue to run
this country by and for themselves.
So this bill says: Let’s proceed to do
voter empowerment. Let’s extend early
voting to all States. Let’s ensure that
there is an opportunity for people to
register to vote, sign up to vote on the
internet, and have same-day registra-
tion. Let’s encourage vote by mail,
which gives a full opportunity for ev-
eryone to participate without having
to get to a poll on a day that it is dif-
ficult to get there, and let’s make sure
changes designed to suppress voting
are not automatically approved, that
we will restore the Voting Rights Act,
which said we will protect the voting
system, its sacred heart, the Constitu-
tion, and we will not let people’s rights
be stripped away.
If you look back at November 6, and
you look at what happened across the
country, you see the plot—the plot to
prevent the poor from voting; the plot
to prevent minorities from voting; the
plot to prevent college students from
voting. One State went so far as to say
you can’t vote if your ID doesn’t have
an expiration date because the college
IDs in that State didn’t have an expira-
tion date—strategy after strategy,
purging people off the voting rolls
without their permission right before
the election.
So this bill, the For the People Act
that the House is working on right now
and that we will introduce right here
in this Chamber says: We believe in the
Constitution of America; we believe in
the power of the people, and we will
protect the right to vote. The For the
People Act takes on campaign finance.
It proceeds to say: We will have disclo-
sure of contributions. There is sunlight
on the system that disinfects it—a
phrase that so many of my colleagues
used to say when they were opposing
the McCain-Feingold limits. They said:
We oppose caps on donations, but we
support disclosure. It is the sunshine
that disinfects the system. Suddenly,
when the bill that provides disclosure
was up before this body, the individuals
who said that said: ‘‘Oh, I was wrong, I
don’t want sunlight in the system,’’
and voted against disclosure. So the
House is saying: Let’s do it. Let’s cre-
ate transparency.
There is an honest ads component
that says people need to be able to
know who is funding the ads they are
seeing. I know I have seen in my cam-
paigns, attack ad, after attack ad,
after attack ad funded by front groups.
Wouldn’t it be better for America if
the folks behind those ads actually
have to disclose that they are behind
those ads?
We have in this bill a small-dollar
match so individuals who seek to run
for the House or the Senate with small-
dollar donations, donations up to $200,
get a 6-to-1 match, encouraging break-
ing the grip of the vast dark money
and the money that comes from the
most affluent in large chunks, leveling
the playing field for participation by
regular Americans, freeing our elec-
tions from the grip of dark money.
This bill, the For the People Act,
says let’s improve the ethics. Let’s re-
duce or try to eliminate the conflicts
of interest that haunt this Chamber
and haunt the House Chamber down
the hall.
JOHN LEWIS stood on that bridge on
Bloody Sunday. Congressman JOHN
LEWIS, long before he was a Congress-
man, in 1965, stood on that bridge. He
stood, and he was the very first person
in line as the troops approached to beat
up the protesters. They shoved him,
they pushed him down, they struck
him in the head, and then they pro-
ceeded to beat up and terrify the other
protesters on that bridge.
Those protesters were standing for
the vision of our Constitution, were
standing for voting rights, the most
powerful instrument, as Lyndon John-
son said.
They went back to that bridge the
following Tuesday, and they marched
up and were stopped, and they agreed
to turn back—‘‘Turn Back Tuesday.’’
Then they reorganized again and more
people joined. They came back a third
time and they marched over that
bridge and they marched all the way to
Montgomery, AL, to fight for voting
rights because it is the heart and soul
of an individual’s ability to participate
in our democracy. JOHN LEWIS has said
this:
There is still work to be done. Get out
there, push and pull, until we redeem the
soul of America.
The For the People Act that the
House will pass and that we will intro-
duce here in this Chamber is the fight
to redeem the soul of America. Let’s
stand together—old-timers and new
Members of the Senate, those who sit
on the left of the aisle and those who
sit on the right of the aisle, those who
come from blue-collar communities
and those who come from circles of
power—to stand behind the vision of
our Constitution, the ‘‘we the people’’
vision, so this Chamber will do the
work of the people. Let’s restore the
soul of America together.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
f
NET NEUTRALITY
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I rise
in defense of the internet. This is a
fight for innovation, for
entrepreneurialism, for the American
economy, a fight for free speech—the
cornerstone of our democracy—a fight
for the most powerful platform for
commerce and communications in the
history of the planet. This is a fight for
net neutrality.
Today nearly every Member of the
Senate Democratic caucus introduced
a bill, the Save the Internet Act, to put
net neutrality rules back on the books.
Congressman MIKE DOYLE is leading
the same effort over in the House.
In the Senate, we have already suc-
cessfully passed the proposal. The
newly introduced Save the Internet
Act and the Congressional Review Act
we approved last Congress will have
the same effect—overturning the
Trump administration’s FCC’s wrong-
headed decision and restoring the open
internet order.
Last May, in a historic, bipartisan
CRA vote of 52 to 47, in the Senate on
this floor, we sent a message to Presi-
dent Trump about what a free and open
internet means, free of corporate con-
trol, open to all who want to commu-
nicate, engage, and innovate. We made
clear this Congress will not fall for
President Trump’s special interest
agenda and his broadband baron allies.
This bill does what the American
people want. It restores the rules so
people are not subject to higher prices,
slower internet speeds, and even
blocked websites because the big
broadband providers want to pump up
their profits. With this bill, we will do
right by the people who sent us here
and fight to protect the internet as we
know it.
This is a fight which we can win.
There is tremendous power on this
issue. Republicans and Democrats alike
agree we need net neutrality so the sky
is the limit. Support for our position
will only continue to grow.
The critics claim the sky hasn’t fall-
en since the FCC repeal, so why do we
need net neutrality at all?
The answer is simple. There is pend-
ing litigation right now in the DC Cir-
cuit Court challenging the FCC’s re-
peal. So there is every reason in the
world why they would not change their
practices until the legal matter is set-
tled in court. Any prudent business
would act cautiously when there is an
issue pending before a court, but once
the issue is resolved in court, there are
no rules. They can do what they want.
In fact, I attended the court hearing
and listened to 5 hours of oral argu-
ment. I saw firsthand how the FCC and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.056 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1716 March 6, 2019
broadband industry used tortured logic
to defend the repeal of net neutrality
and reclassification of broadband.
I also organized an amicus brief with
100 other Members of the Senate and
House in defense of the net neutrality
rules. I am confident we will prevail in
court. Net neutrality is just another
way of saying nondiscrimination, just
another way of saying big companies
can’t discriminate against small com-
panies; that big companies can’t dis-
criminate against small individuals;
that they have equal access to the
internet. They don’t have to pay extra
to gain access. Net neutrality means
nondiscrimination. Those are the rules
we need for the internet in order to see
explosive economic growth because of
the new ideas that are able to be intro-
duced and at the same time so democ-
racy can flourish because every voice is
treated equally on the internet.
So whether it is in the Halls of Con-
gress or in the courts, we will not stop
fighting until net neutrality is fully re-
stored. We are on the right side of his-
tory, and we will not give up this fight
until we have won.
I thank you for the time.
At this point, I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:37 p.m.,
adjourned until Thursday, March 7,
2019, at 9:30 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY
WILLIAM B. KILBRIDE, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE TENNESSEE
VALLEY AUTHORITY FOR A TERM EXPIRING MAY 18, 2023,
VICE ERIC MARTIN SATZ, TERM EXPIRED.
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
JULIE REISKIN, OF COLORADO, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13 , 2019. (RE-
APPOINTMENT)
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. JAMES C. SLIFE
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be general
LT. GEN. PAUL E. FUNK II
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. JAMES W. KILBY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. SCOTT D. CONN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. DEE L. MEWBOURNE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. JON A. HILL
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. STUART B. MUNSCH
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE AND AS APPELLATE MILITARY JUDGES ON THE
UNITED STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION RE-
VIEW. IN ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR CONTINUED STATUS
AS APPELLATE MILITARY JUDGES PURSUANT TO THEIR
ASSIGNMENT BY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 950F(B)(2), WHILE SERVING ON
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION
REVIEW, ALL UNLAWFUL INFLUENCE PROHIBITIONS RE-
MAIN UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 949B(B).
To be colonel
JULIE HUYGEN
MICHAEL LEWIS
TOM POSCH
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
AND AS APPELLATE MILITARY JUDGES ON THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION REVIEW. IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR CONTINUED STATUS AS AP-
PELLATE MILITARY JUDGES PURSUANT TO THEIR AS-
SIGNMENT BY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 950F(B)(2), WHILE SERVING ON
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION
REVIEW, ALL UNLAWFUL INFLUENCE PROHIBITIONS RE-
MAIN UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 949B(B).
To be colonel
PAULA I. SCHASBERGER
JAN E. ALDYKIEWICZ
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
AND AS APPELLATE MILITARY JUDGE ON THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION REVIEW. IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR CONTINUED STATUS AS AN
APPELLATE MILITARY JUDGE PURSUANT TO THEIR AS-
SIGNMENT BY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 950F(B)(2), WHILE SERVING ON
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION
REVIEW, ALL UNLAWFUL INFLUENCE PROHIBITIONS RE-
MAIN UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 949B(B).
To be commander
ANGELA TANG
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate March 6, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
CHAD A. READLER, OF OHIO, TO BE UNITED STATES
CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G06MR6.057 S06MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E251
March 6, 2019
JESSICA LOPEZ
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jessica Lopez
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Jessica Lopez is a student at Jefferson Jr/
Sr. and received this award because her de-
termination and hard work have allowed her to
overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Jessica
Lopez is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Jes-
sica Lopez for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
f
PUEBLO EAST HIGH SCHOOL
WRESTLING TEAM TRIBUTE
HON. SCOTT R. TIPTON
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. TIPTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Pueblo East High School Ea-
gles wrestling team for its first ever 4A State
Championship win.
The Eagles finished first at the Colorado
State Wrestling Tournament in Denver, Colo-
rado, with 200 points. Pueblo County was run-
ner-up with 181.5 points, while Centennial was
in the top five with 76.5 points.
The Eagles performed well as a team, with
every single wrestler scoring at least one point
during the tournament. The team had three
overall state champions, including Andy Gar-
cia, Dominic Robles, and Zion Freeman. All
three of these young men won their weight
classifications.
Andy Garcia accomplished a first for the
team, earning a 4–3 decision over his oppo-
nent and becoming the team’s first three-time
champion, despite having an injured knee on
competition day. Dominic Robles had a phe-
nomenal performance, getting a pin at 1
minute and 36 seconds in the first period
against an opponent from Canon City. Zion
Freeman was the first Eagles wrestler to win
a title at the tournament, ultimately scoring a
perfect 38–0 record for the season.
Madam Speaker, we are proud to have
these incredible students representing Pueblo
and the people of the Third Congressional
District. They have proven themselves to be
individuals with sportsmanship, tenacity, and
perseverance. I offer them my sincere con-
gratulations and I wish them luck in their fu-
ture endeavors. I am eager to see what they
will accomplish going forward.
f
CELEBRATING THE 1ST ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE LAUNCH OF EMER-
GENCY AIR MEDICAL SERVICES
FOR THE BIG BEAR
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize and congratulate the Big Bear Fire
Department and Mercy Air on a successful
year of Emergency Air Medical Services for
the Big Bear Valley.
The mountain communities of my district are
uniquely rugged, and ground based responses
are oftentimes too slow or limited by terrain to
provide lifesaving medical care in a timely
fashion. Air ambulances have the ability to
rapidly transport patients to treatment centers,
and emergency air medical services improve
the survival and recovery rate of those in
need. On February 14, 2018, Big Bear Fire
Authority (BBFA) and the BBFA Critical Care
Medical Air Ship crew undertook their first
flight. Over the past year, arrival times have
decreased, lives have been saved, and over
300 missions have been safely and success-
fully flown.
I applaud the BBFA and the BBFA Critical
Care Medical Air Ship crew, and their partners
Mercy Air, Big Bear Valley Community
Healthcare District, and Big Bear Airport Dis-
trict for their commitment and dedication to
bringing this lifesaving service to the Big Bear
Valley. I wish them many years of safety and
success ahead as they work to keep our com-
munity safe.
f
MIGUEL LOPEZ
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Miguel Lopez
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Miguel Lopez is a student at Arvada High
School and received this award because his
determination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Miguel
Lopez is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Miguel Lopez for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
HONORING BILL HEDGEPETH: SE-
LECT BANK & TRUST AND SE-
LECT BANCORP INC., THE 2019
REALTOR CUP AWARD WINNER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate Bill Hedgepeth with
Select Bank and Trust and Select Bancorp
Inc. for receiving the 2019 Realtor Cup award
from the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce.
Bill has served as the President and Chief
Executive Officer of Select Bank & Trust and
Select Bancorp Inc. since 2008. This includes
19 branches in North Carolina and South
Carolina. Bill is known for not just his exem-
plary work in real estate, but his commitment
to lead in the community.
Throughout his career, Bill has been recog-
nized for his effort and natural talent. He has
been named a Paul Harris Fellow by the Ro-
tary Foundation of Rotary International and in
2015 received the Business of the Year Award
on behalf of Select Bank & Trust and Select
Bancorp Inc.
Not only is Bill dedicated to seeking excel-
lence in his career but he currently serves as
the Board Chair of the United Way of Cum-
berland County, the Greater Fayetteville
Chamber board Treasurer, the Fayetteville
and Cumberland County Vision 2026 Board,
the Highland Country Club Board of Directors
and the Fayetteville Technical Community Col-
lege Board of Trustees.
Bill is very deserving of this award, and I
couldn’t be prouder of the example he set for
our county and beyond.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Bill Hedgepeth on receiving the
2019 Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce Re-
altor Cup.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ROB BISHOP
OF UTAH
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Speaker, my
apologies for my absence. During the roll call
numbers listed below, I was at the Utah State
Capitol addressing the state legislature. Had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on
Roll Call No. 104, and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No.
105.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR8.001 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E252 March 6, 2019
JESSIE MARTINEZ
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jessie Mar-
tinez for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Jessie Martinez is a student at Jefferson Jr/
Sr. and received this award because her de-
termination and hard work have allowed her to
overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Jessie Mar-
tinez is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Jes-
sie Martinez for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE OUT-
PATIENT MENTAL HEALTH CARE
ACT OF 2019
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to introduce the Outpatient Mental
Health Care Act of 2019.
Medicare Partial Hospitalization Programs
(PHPs) provide a structured and clinically in-
tensive alternative to hospitalization for pa-
tients who otherwise might require sustained
inpatient psychiatric hospitalization. PHP psy-
chiatric patients typically receive four to six
hours of treatment per day, five to six days a
week in hospital-based settings and commu-
nity mental health centers. However, the se-
verity of a patient’s illness often prevents that
individual from obtaining or seeking transpor-
tation to a PHP facility, or from accessing high
quality food. Additionally, some psychiatric
medications that are prescribed to the patient
cannot be safely administered without food.
Currently, Medicare does not cover the
costs of nutritional planning, meals or trans-
portation for patients who receive psychiatric
treatment in PHP programs. Therefore, PHP
facilities are responsible for the cost of pro-
viding food and transportation. This exacer-
bates financial burdens that many PHPs and
countless other community organizations are
experiencing in these difficult economic times.
Medicare also does not provide for voca-
tional counseling. However, this counseling
provides a direction for patients that they
might not find on their own. Therefore, voca-
tional counseling is vital for individuals while
they work through their treatment allowing
them to set employment goals and develop a
plan to meet those goals.
Madam Speaker, my bill will require Medi-
care to reimburse PHPs for providing transpor-
tation, food, nutritional services and vocational
counseling. The bill also establishes a Behav-
ioral Health Advisory Committee in which a di-
verse group of behavioral health stakeholders
would examine and provide recommendations
on how to address the persisting challenges of
access, stigma, quality and operability in the
mental health delivery system.
PHPs are a cost effective alternative that
can prevent mentally ill individuals from facing
expensive inpatient care, incarceration, or in-
stitutionalization. The growing role of mental
health PHPs in our health care system re-
quires that we amend the law to assist PHPs
in delivering the services, care and support to
those who are living with severe and chronic
mental illness.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this critically important legislation.
f
HONORING GARY ROGERS, THE 2019
FAYETTEVILLE CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE AMBASSADOR OF
THE YEAR AWARD WINNER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate Gary Rogers for re-
ceiving the 2019 Ambassador of the Year
award from the Fayetteville Chamber of Com-
merce.
Gary is a Senior Marketing Consultant with
the Beasley Media Group that represents
many of our local radio stations. He has an
esteemed passion for radio and an unmatched
drive that makes him a sound resource for our
community.
This prestigious honor is not the first for
Gary. He was included in the Fayetteville 40
Under 40 Class of 2018, Ambassador of the
Year in 2016, and was the recipient of the
Chairman’s Award in 2017. He continues to
serve his community by investing and volun-
teering with non-profit organizations such as
the Media Team and Children’s Ministry at
Breezewood Church.
While he is dedicated to his career and
service in the community, it is clear his real
passion is his marriage to his wife and being
a father to his three year old, Charlie. In his
efforts to set a wonderful example for his son,
he serves as an ambassador with the Greater
Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce and has
been for the last four years.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Gary Rogers on receiving the
2019 Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce Am-
bassador of the Year award.
f
JEMIMA NGOMA
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jemima
Ngoma for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Jemima Ngoma is a student at Arvada High
School and received this award because her
determination and hard work have allowed her
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Jemima
Ngoma is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Jemima Ngoma for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
f
RECOGNIZING KRISTINE PETER-
SEN IN HONOR OF WOMEN’S HIS-
TORY MONTH
HON. MARIO DIAZ-BALART
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Madam Speaker, in rec-
ognition of Women’s History Month, I rise
today to honor Kristine Petersen, whose long-
term service in law enforcement has had a
significant impact on Southern Florida.
Over thirty years ago, Kristine, a single par-
ent, moved to Hendry County and worked as
a waitress and secretary. In 1986, she began
her career in law enforcement as a dispatcher
with the Hendry County Sheriff’s Department.
After successfully completing the Southwest
Florida Criminal Justice Academy, Kristine
was appointed as a Sheriff’s Deputy for
Hendry County, making her the second female
to do so. Through this role, Kristine helped
build Hendry County’s Drug Abuse Resistance
Education (D.A.R.E.) Program, an important
initiative that teaches middle schoolers the
danger of substance abuse. During this time,
she dedicated her evenings to working as an
instructor with the Criminal Justice Academy
for the Lee County School Board. Her passion
for community service is of the highest caliber,
and her selfless character is truly dem-
onstrated in her work for public safety.
In 1998, Kristine began working as a detec-
tive for the City of Clewiston’s Police Depart-
ment. In 2003, she became the Assistant Po-
lice Chief where she served in this role until
2012. Her honorable work ethic and deter-
mination has extended beyond law enforce-
ment. Kristine was appointed to Clewiston’s
City Commission where she won consecutive
four year terms in 2014 and 2018. She also
served as Vice Mayor from December of 2014
to December of 2016. Currently, Kristine is
employed by the Hendry County School Board
to serve as Clewiston High School’s Public
Safety Academy Teacher. In addition to this
role, Kristine also participates in the City of
Clewiston’s Chamber of Commerce Board.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to know Ms.
Petersen and it is a privilege to acknowledge
the dedicated work she has done for Hendry
County. I ask my colleagues to join me in rec-
ognizing this remarkable individual.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR8.003 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E253
March 6, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. PATRICK T. McHENRY
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained. Had I been present, I
would have voted: YEA on Roll Call No. 104,
and YEA on Roll Call No. 105.
f
ANTONIO PORTILLO
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Antonio
Portillo for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Antonio Portillo is a student at Jefferson Jr/
Sr. and received this award because his deter-
mination and hard work have allowed him to
overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Antonio
Portillo is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to An-
tonio Portillo for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
HONORING ON-AFTER BAR AND
GRUB FOR RECEIVING THE 2019
FAYETTEVILLE CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE BUSINESS OF THE
YEAR AWARD
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate On-After Bar and
Grub for receiving the Fayetteville Chamber of
Commerce Business of the Year Award.
On-After Bar and Grub has established itself
as a staple in the community and does more
than just serve a great meal. They have prov-
en to be a reliable leader in the community
and continue to go above and beyond to sup-
port the community where ever it is needed.
Joseph Dewberry, or known around the bar
as Bear, has been a driving force in adding
meaning to their slogan ‘‘Our day begins,
when your shift ends.’’ Over the past few
years they have hosted events like the Autism
Awareness cook off, Hurricane Florence Re-
lief, Every Child Deserves a Christmas, and
Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevent
Day. In addition to hosting events they empha-
size the importance of recognizing the service
our local law enforcement, emergency serv-
ices, and military provide. The entire commu-
nity is grateful for On-After Bar and Grub, my-
self included.
Bear and all the staff at On-After Bar and
Grub are deserving of this award and I wish
them success as they continue to provide ex-
cellent service to our community. I personally
look forward to my next visit while I’m traveling
across the district!
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Joseph Dewberry and On-After
Bar and Grub Restaurant on receiving the
2019 Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce
Business of the Year Award.
f
ADRENA ROCHA
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Adrena Rocha
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Adrena Rocha is a student at Arvada High
School and received this award because her
determination and hard work have allowed her
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Adrena
Rocha is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Adrena Rocha for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
f
VETERANS-SPECIFIC EDUCATION
FOR TOMORROW’S HEALTH PRO-
FESSIONALS ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. STEVEN C. WATKINS, JR.
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, March 5, 2019
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in sup-
port of H.R. 1271, the Vet HP Act.
The Vet HP Act would be a significant ad-
vancement for two critical issues burdening
Eastern Kansans.
My district, being both rural and home to
tens of thousands of veterans, is a medically
underserved district. With both VA and rural
hospitals lacking a steady pipeline of health
professionals, access to quality health care is
not guaranteed for many of these folks back
home.
Secondly, aspiring health professionals from
underserved areas are not afforded the same
opportunities for clinical observation hours as
medical school applicants in major cities, put-
ting them at a disadvantage during the admis-
sions process.
The Vet HP Act would provide an oppor-
tunity for health students to gain clinical obser-
vation hours at VA hospitals, prioritizing stu-
dents in health professional shortage areas,
first-generation college students, students re-
ferred by minority-serving institutions and vet-
erans, and, importantly, students who wish to
train and stay in health professions experi-
encing staff shortages.
This is a true two-birds-one-stone approach.
Across the country we have aspiring health
professionals who lack opportunity, and we
have VA and rural hospitals desperately in
need of a health professional pipeline. The Vet
HP Act is a massive step forward for both
issues.
I urge passage of this common-sense, bi-
partisan bill.
f
RECOGNIZING ANA MARIA RODRI-
GUEZ IN HONOR OF WOMEN’S
HISTORY MONTH
HON. MARIO DIAZ-BALART
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Madam Speaker, in rec-
ognition of Women’s History Month, I rise
today to honor Ana Maria Rodriguez, who has
faithfully served the City of Doral and the
wider Miami region for many years.
Born and raised in South Florida to Cuban
exiles, Ana Maria has been heavily involved in
the Southern Florida community since grad-
uating from Florida International University in
1999 with a Bachelor’s degree in communica-
tions. In 2009, she furthered her education by
gaining her Master’s degree in leadership from
the H. Wayne Huizenga School of Business at
Nova Southeastern University. Ana Maria
worked for a number of years in public rela-
tions and the governmental affairs sector,
where she presently serves as the Vice Presi-
dent of Government Affairs for the Miami As-
sociation of REALTORS.
Ana Maria’s dedication to supporting South-
ern Florida’s community is further dem-
onstrated in her position as an elected official.
Elected in 2018, Ana Maria currently serves
as a Florida House State Representative for
the 105th District. Prior to this impressive
achievement, she served as Vice Mayor for
the City of Doral and previously on the City
Council. Ana Maria executed these roles in a
professional and honest manner at all times,
proving to be a true asset to the City of Doral.
Her passion for community work goes be-
yond elected service. In 2007, Ana Maria
launched the Southeast Region for Connect
Florida, a leadership development program,
and in 2009 served as Statewide Chair. For
over a decade, she has been a dedicated and
active member of the Doral Business Council
and also served as Vice Chair for the City of
Doral’s Parks & Police 4 Kids Advisory Board.
It would be remiss to honor Ana Maria with-
out touching on the number of awards she has
received for her ongoing commitment to her
community. In 2011, she was selected as Hu-
manitarian of the Year by the March of Dimes
and in 2015 she received Advocate of the
Year by the Miami Association of REALTORS.
In 2017, Ana Maria was presented the Public
Service Award by the South Florida Hispanic
Chamber of Commerce, and most recently, in
2018, the Salute to Miami’s Leaders Govern-
ment Award by the Greater Miami Chamber of
Commerce. These accolades are a just a
small testament to Ana Maria’s determined
and selfless character. It is truly a privilege to
know that she will continue to make a signifi-
cant difference in the community she serves
and the people that she touches.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:08 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06MR8.008 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E254 March 6, 2019
Madam Speaker, I am honored to know Ana
Maria Rodriguez and to have the opportunity
to acknowledge her amazing work for South-
ern Florida. I ask my colleagues to join me in
recognizing this outstanding individual.
f
ESMERALDA ROJAS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Esmeralda
Rojas for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Esmeralda Rojas is a student at Arvada
High School and received this award because
her determination and hard work have allowed
her to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Esmeralda
Rojas is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Esmeralda Rojas for winning the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award. I have no doubt she will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of her fu-
ture accomplishments.
f
HONORING SHARON MOYER, THE
2019 ATHENA AWARD WINNER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate Sharon Moyer for
receiving the 2019 Athena Award from the
Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce.
The Athena award is highly coveted and is
presented to the individual that represents the
greatest support for the goals of professional
women. Recipients of this award demonstrate
excellence, creativity, and initiative in their pro-
fession and provides valuable service by con-
tributing time and energy to improve the lives
of others in the community.
Sharon Moyer has proven worthy of this
award time and again with her innovative
thinking, natural leadership, and ability to meet
competitive deadlines. She inspires others
with her personable attitude and her willing-
ness to work hard and invest in the growth
and success of others around her. Sharon has
been an active part of the Partnership for Chil-
dren program and initiated ‘‘Historic
Hauntings: A Ghastly Ghost Tour’’ to help chil-
dren learn the history of Fayetteville. I have
personally attended one of her annual soirees
for the Partnership for Children and have seen
the product of her leadership firsthand.
There are many children in our community
more prepared to reach their full potential due
to Sharon’s philosophy ‘‘persistence beats re-
sistance.’’ Our community is better because of
Sharon and I am thrilled she is being recog-
nized for her talent and dedication.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Sharon Moyer on receiving the
2019 Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce
Athena Award.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, my return
flight to Washington, D.C., was delayed due to
technical difficulty, and I was unable to attend
the legislative session on March 5, 2019.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 104, and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll
Call No. 105.
f
SIDNY ROJAS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Sidny Rojas
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Sidny Rojas is a student at Jefferson Jr/Sr.
and received this award because her deter-
mination and hard work have allowed her to
overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Sidny
Rojas is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Sidny Rojas for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
f
HONORING REPRESENTATIVE
WALTER B. JONES, JR.
SPEECH OF
HON. JERRY McNERNEY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, March 5, 2019
Mr. MCNERNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to mourn the passing of our colleague,
and my dear friend, Congressman Walter
Jones.
Walter was a man of principle and patriot-
ism.
Who was dedicated to serving his District
and his country.
He was deeply concerned about the state of
our nation’s politics.
Especially the growing inequities within our
campaign finance system.
I had the distinct privilege of working closely
with Walter over the past three years.
As co-founders and co-chairs of the Bipar-
tisan Campaign Finance Reform Caucus.
And throughout our work together, I wit-
nessed firsthand his willingness to reach
across the aisle and put people before politics.
Walter was a model public servant who held
tightly to his passions and his unyielding faith.
His independence in this chamber dem-
onstrated his relentless devotion to doing what
he believed was right.
It’s no surprise that he was widely respected
and admired throughout these halls.
My thoughts are with Walter’s family and his
Congressional staff at this time.
And I ask my colleagues to join me in taking
a moment to celebrate the life of our friend,
Walter.
And to honor his legacy of honesty and in-
tegrity.
f
HONORING SANDY AMMONS, THE
2019 FAYETTEVILLE CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE CHAIRMAN
AWARD WINNER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate Sandy Ammons for
receiving the 2019 Chairman’s Award from the
Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce.
Sandy has been a constant positive force in
the community when it comes to the world of
business development and marketing services.
She currently serves as the Director of Busi-
ness Development and Human Resources for
Highland Construction and Restoration where
she oversees marketing and communication,
business development, and administrative
functions including human resources and re-
cruitment.
Sandy is a highly valued and trusted re-
source who is always generous in offering
guidance to others. She has been conquering
all aspects of this industry since 1999 and
owned her own successful marketing firm for
14 years. Her ability to capture elegant and in-
novative design is only part of her unmatched
talent. During her time with Methodist Univer-
sity she was able to provide unparalleled guid-
ance as the Vice President for Advancement
and University Relations. She continues to
serve the community with her fierce work ethic
and amazing attention to detail.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Sandy Ammons on receiving
the 2019 Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce
Chairman’s Award.
f
JASON SENA
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jason Sena
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Jason Sena is a student at Arvada High
School and received this award because his
determination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Jason
Sena is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06MR8.011 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E255
March 6, 2019
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Jason Sena for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF DOUGLAS
CORBIN
HON. MARK DeSAULNIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to Douglas Corbin for his
dedication and service in the Bay Area.
Born in Rochester, New York, Douglas at-
tended St. Lawrence University before receiv-
ing a law degree from George Washington
University. After working as a patent attorney
in Washington, D.C., his work brought him to
San Francisco.
In San Francisco, Douglas became involved
in local politics and eventually transitioned to
public defense. In his new role, Douglas de-
fended the Bay Area’s LGBT community from
harassment and submitted bids on houses on
behalf of African American families who had
seen their own bids unfairly rejected.
After meeting his wife Rosemary, the couple
moved to Richmond where Douglas was
named Contra Costa County’s first Juvenile
Court Referee. In addition to this new role,
Douglas co-chaired the effort to designate Pt.
Pinole as a regional park. His wife Rosemary
also went on to be the first woman elected to
serve as Mayor of Richmond.
In his retirement and between excursions to
Spain and Mexico, Douglas continued to be
active in the East Bay community. He served
for decades as a board member and chairman
for the Early Childhood Mental Health Pro-
gram, as well as a supervisor for the develop-
ment of town homes in Richmond by Habitat
for Humanity.
Douglas will long be remembered for his
knowledge, spirit, and commitment to the
Richmond community.
f
RECOGNIZING PRISCILLA W.
GRANNIS IN HONOR OF WOMEN’S
HISTORY MONTH
HON. MARIO DIAZ-BALART
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Madam Speaker, in
honor of Women’s History Month, I rise today
to recognize Priscilla Grannis, whose inspiring
life journey and determined work ethic has
had a major impact on those around her and
the wider Southern Florida community.
Throughout her eventful life, Priscilla has
proved that she is a strongminded and driven
person who has risen to match many chal-
lenges in a multitude of areas. After receiving
her undergraduate degree in music from Flor-
ida State University and a Master’s of Music
from Yale University, she joined the Miami
Opera and performed with them for two sea-
sons. She then furthered her music career by
moving to Germany and performed overseas.
While in Germany, Priscilla joined Hewlett
Packard and became the Executive Assistant
to the German CEO for a number of years.
Her sheer will to achieve has constantly
been displayed in her ability to adapt to any
line of work. After moving back to Florida due
to the unexpected death of her father, she
took over the management of her family’s cat-
tle farm despite having no prior knowledge or
experience in the industry. With her natural
determination and enthusiasm, Priscilla turned
the farm into a largely successful business
centered on an ethical and responsible man-
agement style.
In the late 1980s, Priscilla made the deci-
sion to enroll in Miami’s St. Thomas Univer-
sity’s law school, where she was a high-
achieving student and graduated with honors.
She then became an attorney in Naples and
practiced law until retiring from the legal pro-
fession in 2014. Throughout her life, she has
been heavily involved in politics and remains
active in public affairs today. Priscilla pre-
viously served two years as the third Vice
President of the Women’s Republican Club of
Naples Federated until being elected Presi-
dent of the Club, where she honorably served
for six years before becoming treasurer, a po-
sition that she still holds today. Her dedicated
involvement to the Women’s Republican Club
of Naples cannot be understated. Under her
leadership, the club grew from about seventy-
five members to over two hundred. Presently,
Priscilla works for Florida House Representa-
tive Bob Rommel as his District Secretary.
Madam Speaker, it is a privilege to know
Ms. Grannis and I greatly admire her commit-
ment to Southern Florida. Her natural motiva-
tion and determination have allowed her to
make an impact everywhere she goes and I
ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing
this outstanding individual.
f
GABE SIMON
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Gabe Simon
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Gabe Simon is a student at Standley Lake
High School and received this award because
his determination and hard work have allowed
him to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Gabe
Simon is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Gabe Simon for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
HONORING THE MILLER FAMILY
HON. BRETT GUTHRIE
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Joel Miller and his wife, Megan
Bel Miller, on the birth of their daughter, Caro-
line Frances Miller.
Caroline was born on Saturday, January 12,
2019, at 8:25 p.m. Joel and Megan’s pride
and joy came into this world weighing in at 8
pounds, 5 ounces and 20 inches in length.
With Joel, my previous Deputy Chief of Staff
and Legislative Director as her father, and
Megan, also a long-time Capitol Hill staffer, as
her mother, I trust Caroline will have a bright
and successful future ahead of her.
Joel recently went on to a new opportunity
after being an integral part of the legislative
operation in my office for over five and a half
years. I am thrilled to witness him continue in
his most important role yet, as a father. I have
no doubt that Joel and Megan will be wonder-
ful and inspiring parents, who are devoted to
their daughter’s well-being.
Congratulations and best wishes to the Mil-
ler and Bel families.
f
HONORING PASTOR FRANKLIN
WOOD, SR.
HON. GREG PENCE
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise to ac-
knowledge Pastor Franklin Wood, Sr., of Whit-
tier Lane Baptist Church who has played an
integral role in his community and congrega-
tion for nearly half a century. The United
States of America was founded by patriots like
Pastor Wood who believed that faith and free-
dom of religion was of paramount importance
to building a strong society.
That truth is evident in our National Motto:
in God We Trust.
Faith remains the bedrock of American life,
and one of the reasons for that is the Church.
Local churches, such as Whittier Lane Baptist
Church in New Castle, IN, have always been
at the forefront of service to communities large
and small. As worshipers put their trust in
God, they looked to Pastor Wood for guidance
and counsel. I have no doubt that Pastor
Wood’s leadership played a vital role in the
spiritual health and wellbeing of so many indi-
viduals in his congregation.
As he begins a well-deserved retirement, I
want to acknowledge Pastor Wood and sin-
cerely thank him for dedicating his life to serve
God and the Church. It is a true honor to
serve a Hoosier who has demonstrated such
deep commitment to his community. I wish
him all the best in his retirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06MR8.009 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E256 March 6, 2019
HONORING HANNA BRITT, THE 2019
FAYETTEVILLE CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE YOUNG PROFES-
SIONAL OF THE YEAR
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate Hanna Britt for re-
ceiving the 2019 Young Professional of the
Year award from the Fayetteville Chamber of
Commerce.
I have a profound respect for successful in-
dividuals taking the time and patience to offer
mentorship to other aspiring young profes-
sionals. Hanna has been with H&H Homes
since 2013 and is currently serving as the
Corporate Director of Marketing.
After receiving a Bachelor of Science in
Business Administration in Marketing from Ap-
palachian State University, Hanna taught
English in South Korea. She came back to
Fayetteville in 2013, and has been passionate
about supporting the community. She is a
member of the Fayetteville Young Professional
program and served on the leadership com-
mittee for two years. Additionally, she is a past
member of the Junior League of Fayetteville.
Hanna is well deserving of this award and
provides a wonderful example for other young
professionals in our community. Her passion is
shown in all that she does and it is with great
pride that I acknowledge her achievements
today.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Hanna Britt on receiving the
2019 Young Professional of the Year award
from the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce.
f
COMMENDING AND CONGRATU-
LATING MR. ROBERT ‘‘BOB’’
CAMACHO ON HIS 34 YEARS OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
HON. MICHAEL F.Q. SAN NICOLAS
OF GUAM
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor a genuine public servant and
friend, Chief Robert ‘‘Bob’’ D. Camacho on his
retirement from the Antonio B. Won Pat Guam
International Airport Authority (GIAA) police
department after 34 years of service to Guam
and to the nation.
Bob has a long history in public service.
After serving 11 years in the United States
Army, where he received numerous awards
and decorations, Bob began his civilian career
as a parole officer in the Guam Department of
Corrections, eventually advancing to the post
of Director of the Department. As Director,
Bob’s innovations included making the Depart-
ment of Correction a tobacco-free environment
and effectively restructuring prison food serv-
ices. These changes significantly reduced
health-care costs for employees as well as in-
mates and saved millions of dollars in food
costs and wastage for the government of
Guam.
Bob served in other senior executive posi-
tions within the law enforcement field including
in the Guam Customs and Quarantine Agency
and the Guam Police Department. It is no sur-
prise that Bob also excelled in these other po-
sitions, constantly exemplifying the definition
of a public servant.
Appointed to the Chief of the Guam Inter-
national Airport Authority police department in
2009, Bob effectively responded to the in-
creased security risks imposed by the tragedy
on September 11, 2001. Bob continued to en-
sure that the GIAA and his department kept
pace with new and constantly changing U.S.
Department of Homeland Security and Trans-
portation Security Administration mandates as
well as keeping pace with the constantly grow-
ing passenger and freight workload. He was
instrumental in promoting and securing fund-
ing for ‘‘Project Hulo,’’ a much needed, and
significant increase, in services, operations,
and security for the airport, which has become
a major Pacific hub for both domestic and
international travel and freight.
Bob continued to trailblaze in the Guam law
enforcement community when he served as
Chairman of the Peace Officer Standards and
Training Commission, setting appropriate
standards for hiring, training, ethical conduct,
and retention of peace officers throughout the
territory of Guam. Bob has dedicated his life
serving our community, exemplified the best in
leadership qualities, and has continued inspire
those around him. Madam Speaker, I rise on
behalf of the People of Guam, offering my
greatest appreciation for Bob’s commitment to
public service. I congratulate him on his retire-
ment and offer him best wishes on his well-
earned retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RECRUIT CLASS
2018–02 OF THE PRINCE WILLIAM
COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF FIRE
AND RESCUE
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
congratulate the recent graduates of the
Prince William County Public Safety Academy.
These men and women will soon join the
ranks of those who have served and continue
to serve in the Prince William County Depart-
ment of Fire and Rescue.
Since its inception in 1966, the Department
of Fire and Rescue has led the way. In 1967,
Prince William County became the first juris-
diction on the East Coast to implement the
911 System. That same year, Prince William
became the first county in the Commonwealth
of Virginia and the National Capital Region to
implement a physical ability exam for career
firefighters. In 1994, Mary Beth Michos was
hired as Chief and became the first female fire
and rescue chief of a metro-sized department.
The Prince William County Department of Fire
and Rescue continues to maintain one of the
most forward-thinking combination fire depart-
ments in the country, and its legacy of ‘‘firsts’’
continues. It is one of only three jurisdictions
in the Commonwealth of Virginia with dele-
gated training authority, granted by the Vir-
ginia Department of Fire Programs.
Class 18–2 spanned 3 seasons: Summer,
Fall, and Winter. They encountered everything
from sun and humidity with unseasonably high
temperatures, to frigid cold and wind. Dealing
with some rain events and even snow and ice
at times. This rigorous training process ex-
ceeded 1,300 hours. Upon successful comple-
tion of this program, each recruit is eligible to
graduate and become a Fire and Rescue
Technician with the Prince William County De-
partment of Fire and Rescue.
The training and certification required to
achieve the status of a Fire and Rescue Tech-
nician cannot be accomplished without signifi-
cant dedication and hard work. Today’s grad-
uates have completed more than 600 hours of
the required coursework for certification in
Emergency Medical Technician, Infection Con-
trol, CPR, Firefighter I & II, Advanced Fire Be-
havior, Hazardous Materials Operations, LPG
Emergencies, Rural Water Supply, Stress First
Aid, MAYDAY Firefighter Down, Rapid Inter-
vention Team Operations, Technical Rescue
Modules 1 & 2, Vehicle Rescue Level I, and
Emergency Vehicle Operator I, II, & III.
It is my honor to include in the RECORD the
following names of the Prince William County
Department of Fire and Rescue recruit class
graduates: Nicholas A. Beede, Ashford P.
Bembry, Mollie L. Bodmer, Dominic J. Clarke,
William B. Cornwell, Brent A. Corrinne, Pierre
L. D’Elia, Sean K. Denise, Andrew R. Denner,
Kevin W. Fagga, Ian E. Franklin, Matthew K.
Harris, Talia B. Hedley, Aaron M. Kearns,
Joshua J. Labuhn, Michael D. Lamb Jr.,
Zachery E. Lloyd, Tobi A. Olafisoye, Alex-
ander J. Otto, Jeffery R. Payne, Rachel K.
Payne, Kimberly C. Peele, Logan J. Penry,
Lawrence J. Price, Brandon S. Rice, Lindsay
E. Savat, Matthew G. Truslow, Juliana C.
Veloso, Jacob W. Vetter, Randy L. Williams,
Brian T. Zimmerman.
As the newest members of the Department
of Fire and Rescue, these graduates join the
department as integral parts of the emergency
response and community safety team.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in congratulating the newest members
of the Prince William County Department of
Fire and Rescue. I am confident that recruit
class 2018–02 will serve the residents of
Prince William County with honor and distinc-
tion. In the tradition of their new firefighting
family, I say: ‘‘Stay safe.’’
f
RECOGNIZING PAUL RECKLAU ON
THE OCCASION OF HIS RETIRE-
MENT FROM THE GENERAL
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize Paul Recklau on the occasion of his
retirement from the General Services Adminis-
tration following a 40-year career in the federal
government. I thank him for his life-long dedi-
cation to public service and to our country.
Paul Recklau was born and raised in
Feasterville, Pennsylvania. He graduated from
Pennsylvania State University in 1978 with a
degree in Accounting. He began his career in
civil service in January of 1979 in a 16-month
training program at the Savannah Army Depot
in Illinois. Paul trained to be a QUASAS, a
Quality Assurance Specialist, Ammunition Sur-
veillance, which is the oldest career program
in the Department of Army. Paul then got his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06MR8.018 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E257
March 6, 2019
first duty assignment at the Pueblo Army
Depot in Colorado continuing to gain experi-
ence as an ammunition inspector and an ex-
plosives safety expert. After serving a couple
of years there, he received his second assign-
ment at the Lone Star Army Ammunition Plant
in Texas. He was then transferred to Longhorn
Ammunition Plant in Karnack, Texas to act as
a GS–11 level QUASAS.
Paul then spent 6 years at the Sunflower
Army Ammunition Plant in Kansas, south of
De Soto. In 1988, only 9 years into his career,
he was promoted to a GS–12 and acted as
Chief of Quality Assurance at the plant. In
1990, he moved into a new role as an Indus-
trial Specialist for the Defense Logistics Agen-
cy in Columbus, Ohio. For 9 months, Paul
commuted to Dayton, Ohio and performed his
duties at the Defense Electronic Supply Cen-
ter. Upon returning to Columbus he became a
Contract Specialist. In 1999, he was promoted
to a GS–13 as an Acquisition Specialist for the
Military Traffic Management Command in
Northern Virginia. Then, Paul started at the
General Services Administration in 2002 work-
ing for the Federal Systems Integration and
Management Center (FEDSIM) as an IT Spe-
cialist. Approximately 2 years later he was
promoted to a GS–14 Senior Project Manager.
After 10 years at FEDSIM, Paul moved to the
Office of Strategy Management within GSA
and finally in 2014, ended up in the Office of
General Supplies and Services as a Program
Analyst where he ended his career on March
1, 2019. Throughout his career, Paul success-
fully worked with other federal employees as
well as outside contractors to complete
projects and keep day to day processes run-
ning smoothly. Civil servants like Paul are vital
to the continuous operation of the government
and I am grateful to Paul for spending the en-
tirety of his career in service to our country.
Paul resides in Woodbridge, Virginia with
his wife, Maureen, who has been a reading
tutor at a local Prince William County public
elementary school for 15 years. Their daugh-
ter, Jean Recklau, is a junior at the University
of Virginia studying Public Policy. In retire-
ment, Paul plans to travel and complete home
improvement projects around the house. In
addition, he will continue to serve on his local
homeowner’s association board of which he
has been a member for 18 years, including 4
years as president.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in congratulating my constituent, Paul
Recklau on his retirement and in wishing him
all the best in the future.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JOHN D.
JENKINS
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize my dear friend, Supervisor John D.
Jenkins, who passed away on February 6,
2019. John was the longest serving incumbent
supervisor in Prince William County, proudly
serving as the Neabsco Supervisor for 36
years. In 2009, I entered a tribute to John Jen-
kins into the United States CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD in recognition of his dedication to the
community and his work with the Boy Scouts
of America. I am sad to do it again under
these circumstances, but honored to do so for
a great man and the legacy he is leaving be-
hind.
John Jenkins dedicated his life to public
service. John served honorably and with dis-
tinction in the United States Army for more
than 25 years, including two tours of duty in
Vietnam. He was highly decorated, earning a
National Defense Service Medal, a Meritorious
Service Medal, a Defense Meritorious Service
Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal, and was
awarded the Bronze Star with Oak Leaf Clus-
ters. He retired from the Army in December,
1980, reaching the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.
In 1973, John moved to Dale City with his
beloved wife, Ernestine. Although he was still
serving in the U.S. Army, he immediately be-
came involved in the community by joining the
Dale City Civic Association. John and Ernes-
tine also mentored area youth. They were in-
volved in the Dale City Little League, Dale City
Sports Club, Boy Scouts of America, and Gar-
Field Senior High School Athletic Boosters
Club. John also devoted countless hours to
assisting veterans through his leadership in
several veteran service organizations.
In 1982, two years after his retirement from
the U.S. Army, John was appointed to the
Board of County Supervisors to fill the
Neabsco District seat which was vacated by
James McCoart. While serving the constitu-
ents of the Neabsco District was always
John’s primary objective, he was also able to
effect change and shape progress for all of
Prince William County. He advocated success-
fully for the construction of the Dale City
Recreation Center, the McCoart Administration
Center, Pfitzner Stadium, the county’s Boys’
and Girls’ Home, the Hilda Barg Homeless
Prevention Center, Chinn Park Regional Li-
brary, and many more major civic investments
including numerous schools, public safety fa-
cilities, and senior centers. John worked tire-
lessly to improve our local schools and the
quality of public education. He was a cham-
pion of economic and infrastructure develop-
ment in the county.
But what everyone loved most about John
was his care for all people. Regardless of sex,
race, or creed, John supported all rights. As a
life-long civil and human rights supporter, John
asked the board to initiate a local investigation
of a Dale City restaurant for refusal of service
based on race. Then just last year in 2018,
John supported a vote on the board to make
June ‘‘LGBTQ and More Pride Month.’’
Throughout his tenure, John worked for the
people of Prince William County, making sure
their next day was better than the last.
Through the past four decades John was both
elected and appointed to several distinguished
committee seats. John served two terms as
Vice Chairman of the Prince William Board of
County Supervisors as well as two terms as
Chairman of the Northern Virginia Regional
Commission, State President of the Virginia
Association of Planning District Commissions,
State President of the Virginia Association of
Counties, Chairman of the Virginia Railway
Express Operations Board, and Chairman of
the Potomac and Rappahannock Transpor-
tation Commission.
John served as a member of the Wash-
ington Council of Governments Transportation
Planning Board and was appointed by two
governors, Governor MARK WARNER and Gov-
ernor TIM KAINE, to serve as a member of the
Virginia Geographical Information Network
(VGIN) Advisory Board. In addition, John
served on numerous boards and steering
committees, including the Virginia Municipal
League, the Virginia Association of Counties,
and the National Association of Counties, and
represented the Board of County Supervisors
on the Quantico Marine Corps and Fort
Belvoir Base Realignment and Closing
(BRAC) advisory committees.
John received numerous awards in recogni-
tion of his life-long commitment to service in-
cluding the Robert W. Baker Award and the
Blue Victory Award. In addition, in 2015 the
Virginia Railway Express honored him for his
key role in establishing a commuter rail serv-
ice by having his name placed on the front of
a VRE locomotive. Gar-Field High School also
honored John for his support of athletic and
academic programs as a booster club presi-
dent, parent, and county supervisor.
John is survived by his wife Ernestine who
is also a dedicated community activist as well
as a former public school employee, who
worked in Prince William County Public
Schools for 30 years as a teacher’s assistant
and staff member. Ernestine has been John’s
rock for more than six decades. She was just
as involved in John’s public service as any-
one. John is also survived by his three sons,
Warren, Mark, and Gordon and numerous
grandchildren, and great-grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, Prince William County and
the entire northern Virginia region has lost a
great leader, mentor, public servant, and icon.
John Jenkins’ life was one spent in service to
his country and his community. He could and
would move heaven and earth for his constitu-
ents. John knew your name, he knew your
kids’ names, he probably even knew your
grandkids’ names. He cared about people and
made sure they knew it. I ask that my col-
leagues join me in recognizing the memory
and honorable service of Supervisor John D.
Jenkins. He was my dear friend, mentor, a
colleague, and his absence will create a void
in Northern Virginia that will be impossible to
fill.
f
HONORING THE 136TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF EBENEZER BAPTIST
CHURCH
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the 136th anniversary of
Ebenezer Baptist Church.
Ebenezer Baptist Church was founded by
Reverend Lewis Henry Bailey. After being
separated from his family in Alexandria, Vir-
ginia, Lewis Henry Bailey was sold into slav-
ery and was enslaved in Texas throughout his
youth and early adulthood. Once Bailey was
freed, he walked from Texas to Virginia to re-
join his family. He found employment with a
railroad company and later graduated from
Wayland College. In 1882, he was ordained
as an itinerant minister at Ebenezer Baptist
Church in Alexandria. With aspirations of shar-
ing the Gospel with residents of the Town of
Occoquan, Reverend Bailey walked to and
from the town to hold religious services for the
black members of the community. In apprecia-
tion of his tireless efforts, white members of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06MR8.021 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E258 March 6, 2019
the community provided land for a church and
a place for Reverend Bailey to live. The Clerk
of the Court for Prince William County ap-
proved the deed on March 8, 1883, and Ebe-
nezer Baptist Church celebrates its anniver-
sary on the first Sunday of March in recogni-
tion of this momentous occasion.
Bailey started the New School in Occoquan,
serving as a precursor to the establishment of
the New School Baptist Church, which later
became Ebenezer Baptist Church. The corner-
stone of the church was laid on the first Sun-
day in May 1883 and the building was dedi-
cated in 1885. Reverend Bailey, who had long
been the inspiration and driving force for the
establishment of this church, led the con-
gregation from 1885–1891.
The church has endured setbacks and
faced community challenges during its 136
year history. After the original church structure
burned to the ground in 1923, Ebenezer Bap-
tist Church was rebuilt in 1924 where it re-
mains today in the same historical site. The
church was also instrumental in the integration
of the county’s public schools in the 1960s, as
well as several other Civil Rights accomplish-
ments. I was honored to include the oral his-
tories of three members of Ebenezer Baptist
Church in my Northern Virginia Civil Rights Ar-
chive project.
Throughout its history, Ebenezer Baptist
Church has been led by pastors who have
served the church and the congregation faith-
fully. Their most recent pastor, Reverend
Charles A. Lundy, was called to the pulpit to
lead the church and has done so righteously
since June 23, 1990. Under Reverend Lundy’s
leadership, Ebenezer Baptist Church has flour-
ished and its membership has expanded from
120 members to more than 800 today. To ac-
commodate this growing church family, weekly
worship at Ebenezer Baptist Church has been
relocated to Telegraph Road. Ebenezer Bap-
tist Church has been and remains a monu-
mental, historical, and spiritual structure in our
community.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in celebrating the 136th anniversary of
Ebenezer Baptist Church and in thanking the
church and congregation for their contributions
to our community.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF GEORGE
WILLIAM ‘‘BILLY’’ ELLIS
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to the life of George Wil-
liam ‘‘Billy’’ Ellis, .former Chief of the Vienna
Volunteer Fire Department. Chief Ellis recently
passed away at the age of 81 following a brief
illness, surrounded by his friends and loved
ones.
My congressional district includes the town
of Vienna, Virginia, a vibrant and active com-
munity of 16,000 residents. In 2013, Money
Magazine ranked it the third best place to live
in the nation. If you were to ask the residents
of Vienna, they would unanimously say that it
should have taken first place.
There are many reasons why residents of
Vienna take such pride in their town-the an-
nual town festivals and concerts, the incredible
Vienna Youth sports program, the outstanding
schools and services, and even a local res-
taurant that serves the best chili dogs. Per-
haps the most important reasons are the com-
munity spirit that is so prevalent, and the will-
ingness of the residents to work together for
the betterment of all. This of course includes
the men and women who protect the town as
members of law enforcement and the Vienna
Volunteer Fire Department.
Chief Ellis joined the Vienna Volunteer De-
partment at the age of 18. For more than 50
years, he epitomized the spirit of volunteerism,
devoting his time and energy to serving his
community. In 1980, he became the chief of
the department, a position he held until 2001
when he and his wife, Joan, decided to move
to Culpepper County where he lived up until
his passing. But even a move to a quieter
community couldn’t keep Chief Ellis away from
a fire station. Following the move, he quickly
joined the Salem Volunteer Fire Department
and spent many more years driving apparatus
to emergencies. Serving others was in his
DNA.
Chief Ellis was preceded in death by a son,
Charles. He leaves behind a wife of 58 years,
Joan Scott Ellis, his sons David (Jennifer) and
Robert (Lori), his daughter Jennifer, and his
four grandchildren, Alison, Jacob, Ashley and
Hunter. He also leaves behind an incredible
legacy of charity, commitment and dedication
in a community that will be indebted to this
great man for years to come.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in commending the selfless dedication and
commitment to serve of Chief George William
‘‘Billy’’ Ellis, and in extending my deepest con-
dolences to his family. May you rest in peace,
Chief Ellis.
f
RECOGNIZING GUAM’S AUTISM
COMMUNITY TOGETHER AS THEY
CELEBRATE THEIR 12TH ANNUAL
AUTISM AWARENESS FAIR
HON. MICHAEL F.Q. SAN NICOLAS
OF GUAM
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Guam’s Autism Community
Together (ACT) as they celebrate their 12th
annual Autism Awareness Fair, appropriately
themed ‘‘Get Your Blue on Guam, Support Au-
tism.’’ During Autism Awareness Month, ACT
and organizations across the country work to-
gether to provide every individual with autism
spectrum disorder with the opportunity to
achieve the highest possible quality of life.
This year, ACT and their partners want to do
more than just promote autism awareness.
They want to motivate friends and collabo-
rators to become active partners in the move-
ment towards acceptance and appreciation.
As the father of an autistic child, I am aware
of the impact that autism has on parents, fam-
ily, and friends. It is imperative that the whole
community becomes involved. Although much
has been accomplished, much more remains
to be done to raise worldwide awareness of
these issues.
ACT is an organization based in Guam as
a support group for families with autistic chil-
dren. It is one of Guam’s principal organiza-
tions leading the efforts to increase autism
awareness across our community. ACT is
dedicated to helping individuals and parents
find resources, support, and training while
making diligent efforts to increase the aware-
ness of autism spectrum disorders. ACT advo-
cates for effective services to meet the unique
needs of individuals with autism and their fam-
ilies.
Madam Speaker, I further commend Autism
Community Together as it continues to host
the 12th Annual Autism Awareness Fair World
Autism Day. The Autism Awareness Fair is the
largest event hosted by ACT throughout the
year and brings together government agen-
cies, non-profit organizations, service pro-
viders, and support vendors with the intent to
provide information and resources on the var-
ious disability-related programs and services
available on Guam. Madam Speaker, on be-
half of the people of Guam, I thank Guam’s
Autism Community Together and all govern-
ment agencies and community partners for
their assistance in spreading autism aware-
ness and acceptance. I look forward to future
contributions by Autism Community Together
to provide more opportunities for those in
community living with autism.
f
CONGRATULATING THE ELECTED
OFFICERS OF THE FAIRFAX
COUNTY FEDERATION OF CITI-
ZENS ASSOCIATIONS
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the Fairfax County Federation of
Citizens Associations (the ‘‘Federation’’) and
to congratulate its recently elected officers
who will serve in leadership positions for the
2018–2019 term.
Founded in 1940 and re-incorporated in
1995, the Federation is a coalition of civic and
homeowners associations who work together
to promote and support initiatives that will ben-
efit the community as a whole. The Federation
realized early in its existence that by joining
with other civic and homeowners associations
from every comer of the county and speaking
with one unified voice, its influence and con-
tributions would be far more powerful and ef-
fective.
The Federation is comprised of thousands
of volunteers who actively participate in mat-
ters of local and state government that impact
their communities. Individual members serve
on countless task forces , boards and commis-
sions to help preserve the quality of life that is
enjoyed by all who call Fairfax County home.
As a former two-term President of the Federa-
tion, I understand that those who volunteer
their time, energies, and talents to civic activi-
ties play a vital role in making Fairfax County
one of the best places in the nation in which
to live, work; and raise a family.
The Federation would not be nearly as suc-
cessful and effective without the leadership of
its officers. It is my great honor to include in
the RECORD the names of the following newly
elected Federation officers:
President: William S. Barfield. Bill resides in
the Braddock District and has an extensive
history of civic engagement including serving
as President of the Country Club View Civic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06MR8.023 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E259
March 6, 2019
Association, Chairman of the Braddock District
Council of Community Associations, founding
member and vice-chair of the Braddock Dis-
trict Land Use and Environmental Committee,
and 2nd Vice President of the Federation.
First Vice President: Matt Dunne. Matt and
his family live in the Mount Vernon District. He
is active in the Stratford Landing Citizens As-
sociation and serves as the Educational Liai-
son to the Mount Vernon Council of Citizens’
Associations.
Second Vice President: Alejandro Mattiuzzo.
Alejandro and his wife live in the Mason Dis-
trict and he is an accounting professional by
trade. He has served as Treasurer for the
Federation and is committed to using his skills
to best suit the mission of the organization.
Treasurer: Leslie Braun. Leslie resides in
the Sully District and has served on the Frank-
lin Farm Community Association Board and
the Foxfield Community Association Board. In
addition, Leslie served for more than two
years as Treasurer of the Northern Virginia
Section of the American Society of Quality.
Recording Secretary: Flint Webb. Flint re-
sides in the Providence District and is a mem-
ber of the Dunn Loring Gardens Civic Associa-
tion. In 2011, he received the Providence Dis-
trict Council’s Community Service Award. In
addition, he has served as Chair and Co-chair
of the Environmental Committee of the Fed-
eration and has represented it on the Metro-
politan Washington Air Quality Committee
Technical Advisory Committee.
Corresponding Secretary: Erica Yalowitz.
Erica resides in the Providence District and
serves on the board and various other com-
mittees of the Rotunda Condominium Associa-
tion where she resides. She is the current
Vice-President of the Providence District
Council and a member of the Emerging Lead-
ers Council of the Tysons Partnership.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in thanking all of the individual members of
the Fairfax Federation of Civic Association and
in congratulating the 2018–2019 officers on
being elected to lead this dynamic organiza-
tion. I commend them for their efforts on be-
half of the community and wish them contin-
ued success.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 30TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF ANTIOCH BAPTIST
CHURCH
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize Pastor Marshal L. Ausberry and the
congregation of Antioch Baptist Church on the
occasion of their 30th anniversary.
Founded on January 8, 1989 by Pastor
John Q. Gibbs, Antioch Baptist Church has
been a thriving member of the Fairfax County
community. Pastor Gibbs was responsible for
many of the significant milestones in the
church’s history, including the purchase of the
land where the current building now stands, as
well as the construction of the building that
would become the new and expanded sanc-
tuary.
Just as the physical presence of Antioch
Baptist Church has expanded over time, so
too has their presence in the community. The
congregation provides witness to their faith
through a variety of missions, including pro-
grams assisting the homeless population, the
elderly, those suffering from illness and those
who are incarcerated. The congregation has
also participated in international relief efforts,
such as the aftermath of the devastating
earthquake in Haiti in 2010.
As someone who attended seminary and
seriously considered entering the Catholic
priesthood, I can attest that being called to
ministry is a special responsibility. The bur-
dens and rewards that are represented by this
calling are neither widely understood nor ap-
preciated, but they are uniquely enriching.
I have often found a pastoral aspect to my
constituent service work as a Member of Con-
gress and I trust that Antioch Baptist will con-
tinue to be a pastoral force in the community
for many years and decades to come. I am
confident that Antioch Baptist Church will con-
tinue to prosper and provide the community
with the spiritual guidance so needed in to-
day’s complex world. Their dedication to min-
istry and to their faith is to be commended,
and I thank them for their dedication to their
congregation and our community.
On behalf of the 11th Congressional District,
I again congratulate Pastor Ausberry and the
entire congregation on this momentous anni-
versary. I ask my colleagues to please join me
in offering their congratulations to in wishing
Antioch Baptist Church continued success in
all their future endeavors.
f
RECOGNIZING NACHA—THE ELEC-
TRONIC PAYMENTS ASSOCIA-
TION, ONE OF THE 2019 BEST
PLACES TO WORK IN VIRGINIA
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize NACHA—The Electronic Payments
Association, and to congratulate them on their
recent designation as one of the 2019 Best
Places to Work in Virginia by the Virginia Busi-
ness and Best Companies Group. Determined
by a statewide survey competition, the annual
list honors the best places of employment in
Virginia.
NACHA’s designation as one of the 2019
Best Places to Work in Virginia is a fitting ac-
knowledgment of its many contributions to Vir-
ginia’s economy, workforce, and business
community. Headquartered in Herndon, Vir-
ginia, NACHA proudly employs 61 Virginians,
and three of their 42 Direct Members are
based in the Commonwealth: Navy Federal
Credit Union, Capital One, and
ePayResources.
NACHA serves as trustee of the Automated
Clearing House (ACH) Network, enabling pay-
ments such as direct deposit and direct pay-
ment via ACH. Today, NACHA’s work is more
important than ever, as more than 80 percent
of U.S. workers now receive their regular pay
using Direct Deposit via ACH, and consumers
now pay 800 million bills each month with Di-
rect Payment via ACH. In 2018 alone, 23 bil-
lion ACH payments, valued at a total of $50
trillion, moved across the ACH Network.
I am thrilled to recognize NACHA’s commit-
ment to creating and fostering an award-win-
ning work environment, and I commend them
on their efforts to strengthen the ACH Net-
work. I am proud to represent in Congress
one of the 2019 Best Places to Work in Vir-
ginia.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in recognizing NACHA’s successes,
and in congratulating them on the well-de-
served honor of being named one of the 2019
Best Places to Work in Virginia.
f
RECOGNIZING THE NOMINEES FOR
THE 2018–2019 PRINCE WILLIAM
COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS PRIN-
CIPAL OF THE YEAR AWARD
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the nominees for the 2018–
2019 Prince William County Public Schools
Principal of the Year Award.
Principals who meet the criteria for the
award are those who effectively manage,
demonstrate, and encourage creativity and in-
novation, foster cooperation between the
school and community by maintaining an open
dialogue with students, parents, faculty, and
staff, and exemplify commitment to providing a
quality education for all students to learn and
develop. The selected winner will be named
the Prince William County Principal of the
Year.
As the second largest school division in the
Commonwealth of Virginia, Prince William
County Public Schools educates 90,000 stu-
dents in ninety-eight schools. The efficiency
and impact of these teachers is apparent as
PWCS ranked the highest in the entire state
with their on-time graduation rate.
I extend my personal congratulations to the
following nominees for the 2018–2019 Prince
William County Public Schools Principal of the
Year Award: Neil Beech, Osbourn Park High
School; Mary Jane Boynton, Parkside Middle
School; Hamish Brewer, Fred Lynn Middle
School; Kathryn Forgas, Coles Elementary
School; Latiesa Green, Potomac View Ele-
mentary School; Sheila Huckestein, Saunders
Middle School; Richard Nichols, Stonewall
Jackson High School; Jennifer Perilla, Tyler
Elementary School; Amy Schott, Rockledge
Elementary School; Aerica Williams, River
Oaks Elementary School.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in commending the nominees for
2018–2019 Prince William County Public
Schools Principal of the Year Award and in
thanking them for their dedication and leader-
ship to the students, teachers, and faculty to
ensure a bright future for all who pass through
the doors of their schools. Their continued
service is truly commendable and worthy of
our highest praise, and their efforts ensure
that our Prince William County students are
provided a world-class education in a vibrant
learning community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR8.026 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E260 March 6, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE RECIPIENTS OF
THE 2019 PRINCE WILLIAM COUN-
TY HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
AWARDS
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the recipients of the 2019 Prince
William County Human Rights Commission
Awards.
The Prince William Board of County Super-
visors (BOCS) implemented the Human Rights
Ordinance January 15, 1993, formally estab-
lishing the Human Rights Commission. Two
years prior, the BOCS formed the Human
Rights Study Committee to explore the needs
of a community that was growing in population
and diversity. An exhaustive effort that in-
cluded numerous committee meetings and
public hearings identified a strong community
desire for a human rights ordinance and an
agency to enforce it. The Human Rights Ordi-
nance prohibits discriminatory practices based
on race, color, sex, national origin, religion,
marital status, or disability, as well as in the
consideration of employment, housing, public
accommodations, education, and credit, in
Prince William County.
The BOCS approved the ordinance in Sep-
tember 1992 to ensure that ‘‘each citizen is
treated fairly, provided equal protection of the
law, and equal opportunity to participate in the
benefits, rights, and privileges of community
life.’’ Residents enlist the services of the com-
mission if they feel their rights have been vio-
lated in the areas of employment, fair housing,
credit, education and public accommodation.
In celebration of Universal Human Rights
Day, the Human Rights Commission recog-
nizes individuals and organizations that pro-
mote the principles of human rights in Prince
William County. It is my honor to include in the
RECORD the recipients of the 2019 Prince Wil-
liam County Human Rights Commission
Awards: Phyllis Aggrey, John Harper, The Na-
tional Coalition of 100 Black Women—Prince
William County Chapter, Potomac Health
Foundation, Graham Park Middle School,
Minnieville Elementary School’s Family En-
gagement Team.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in commending the recipients of the
2019 Prince William County Human Rights
Commission Awards. We owe a deep debt of
gratitude to these honorees for their efforts to
safeguard our most basic rights and remind us
of our common humanity. Let us use their ex-
ample to rededicate ourselves to the fight
against inequity and injustice.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
March 7, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
MARCH 11
5:40 p.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illi-
nois, to be an Assistant Secretary, and
Joseph V. Cuffari, of Arizona, to be In-
spector General, both of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
S–216
MARCH 12
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the Con-
sumer Financial Protection Bureau’s
Semi-Annual Report to Congress.
SD–538
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Michael J. Fitzpatrick, of Vir-
ginia, to be Ambassador to the Repub-
lic of Ecuador, and Ronald Douglas
Johnson, of Florida, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of El Salvador, both of
the Department of State.
SD–419
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine reauthor-
izing the Higher Education Act, focus-
ing on simplifying the Free Application
for Federal Student Aid and reducing
the burden of verification.
SD–430
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold a joint hearing with the House
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to ex-
amine the legislative presentation of
multiple veterans service organiza-
tions.
SD–G50
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine the road
ahead for the World Trade Organiza-
tion.
SD–215
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and
Capabilities
To hold hearings to examine artificial in-
telligence initiatives within the De-
partment of Defense.
SR–232A
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Communications, Tech-
nology, Innovation, and the Internet
To hold hearings to examine the impact
of broadband investments in rural
America.
SH–216
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine rec-
ommendations from the President’s
task force on the United States Postal
Service, focusing on a path to sustain-
ability.
SD–342
MARCH 13
10 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland,
to be Chairman of the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission.
SR–328A
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Defense
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
the Air Force.
SD–192
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine the new
space race, focusing on ensuring United
States global leadership on the final
frontier.
SD–G50
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine an original
bill entitled, ‘‘Diesel Emissions Reduc-
tion Act of 2019’’.
SD–406
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine a new ap-
proach for an era of United States-
China competition.
SD–419
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
To receive a closed briefing on the most
significant threats to United States
Naval Forces and how Naval Forces
plan to operate in a contested environ-
ment.
SVC–217
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Budget
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020.
SD–608
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
Indian programs on the Government
Accountability Office High Risk List.
SD–628
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the United States Patent and Trade-
mark Office.
SD–226
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine cyber crime,
focusing on the threat to small busi-
nesses.
SR–428A
MARCH 14
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the Depart-
ment of Defense budget posture in re-
view of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SD–G50
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06MR8.030 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E261
March 6, 2019
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine the Ebola
outbreak in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and other emerging
health threats.
SD–124
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine Financial
Stability Oversight Council nonbank
designations.
SD–538
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M06MR8.000 E06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D220
Wednesday, March 6, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1671–S1716
Measures Introduced: Twenty-three bills and four
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S. 668–690,
S.J. Res. 13, and S. Res. 96–98. Pages S1704–06
Murphy Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Eric E. Murphy,
of Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Sixth Circuit. Pages S1698–S1702
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 53 yeas to 46 nays (Vote No. EX. 38), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S1698
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that all post-cloture time on the nomination
expire at 12:30 p.m., on Thursday, March 7, 2019;
that following disposition of the nomination, Senate
resume consideration of the nomination of John
Fleming, of Louisiana, to be Assistant Secretary of
Commerce for Economic Development, that the mo-
tion to invoke cloture on the nomination be with-
drawn, and the time until 1:45 p.m. be equally di-
vided in the usual form, and Senate vote on con-
firmation of the nomination of John Fleming at 1:45
p.m. Page S1702
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 9:30 a.m., on Thurs-
day, March 7, 2019. Page S1702
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 52 yeas to 47 nays (Vote No. EX. 37), Chad
A. Readler, of Ohio, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Sixth Circuit. Pages S1671–98, S1716
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
William B. Kilbride, of Tennessee, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley
Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2023.
Julie Reiskin, of Colorado, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation
for a term expiring July 13, 2019.
1 Air Force nomination in the rank of general.
1 Army nomination in the rank of general.
5 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Navy.
Page S1716
Messages from the House: Page S1704
Measures Referred: Page S1704
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S1704, S1712
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S1704
Executive Communications: Page S1704
Petitions and Memorials: Page S1704
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1706–07
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S1707–12
Additional Statements: Pages S1702–04
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S1712
Privileges of the Floor: Page S1712
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—38) Pages S1697–98
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:37 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Thursday,
March 7, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S1712.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
PREVENTION OF AND RESPONSE TO
SEXUAL ASSAULT
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Per-
sonnel concluded a hearing to examine the military
services’ prevention of and response to sexual assault,
after receiving testimony from Lieutenant Com-
mander Erin Leigh Elliott, USN, Elizabeth P. Van
Winkle, Office of Force Resiliency, Lieutenant Gen-
eral Charles N. Pede, USA, Judge Advocate General
of the Army, Vice Admiral John G. Hannink, USN,
Judge Advocate General of the Navy, Lieutenant
General Jeffrey A. Rockwell, USAF, Judge Advocate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:43 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06MR9.REC D06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D221
March 6, 2019
General of the Air Force, and Major General Daniel
J. Lecce, USMC, Staff Judge Advocate to the Com-
mandant of the Marine Corps, all of the Department
of Defense; Colonel Don M. Christensen, USAF
(Ret.), Protect our Defenders; Colonel Ellen Haring,
USA (Ret.), Service Women’s Action Network; Colo-
nel Doug James, USAF (Ret.), Save Our Heroes; and
Angela Bapp.
MARITIME INDUSTRY
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the state
of the American maritime industry, after receiving
testimony from Matt Woodruff, American Maritime
Partnership, and Matthew Paxton, Shipbuilders
Council of America, both of Washington, D.C.;
Thomas Allegretti, The American Waterways Opera-
tors, Arlington, Virginia; Austin Golding, Golding
Barge Line, Vicksburg, Mississippi; and Berit
Eriksson, Sailor’s Union of the Pacific, Seattle,
Washington.
HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENT
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine the economic
benefits of highway infrastructure investment and ac-
celerated project delivery, after receiving testimony
from Michael Replogle, New York City Department
of Transportation, New York, New York; Patrick K.
McKenna, Missouri Department of Transportation
and American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials, Washington, D.C.; and
Steve Demetriou, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.,
Dallas, Texas, on behalf of the Business Roundtable
Infrastructure Committee.
NURSING HOME ABUSE AND NEGLECT
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine protecting Americans from abuse and ne-
glect in nursing homes, after receiving testimony
from Kate Goodrich, Director, Center for Clinical
Standards and Quality, and Chief Medical Officer,
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services; Antoinette T.
Bacon, Associate Deputy Attorney General, Office of
the Deputy Attorney General, Department of Jus-
tice; Keesha R. Mitchell, Office of the Ohio Attor-
ney General, Columbus; David C. Grabowski, Har-
vard Medical School Department of Health Care Pol-
icy, Cambridge, Massachusetts; David Gifford,
American Health Care Association, Washington,
D.C.; Patricia Olthoff-Blank, Shell Rock, Iowa; and
Maya Fischer, Plymouth, Minnesota.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the nominations of John P.
Abizaid, of Nevada, to be Ambassador to the King-
dom of Saudi Arabia, who was introduced by Senator
Sullivan, and Matthew H. Tueller, of Utah, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq, both of the De-
partment of State, after the nominees testified and
answered questions in their own behalf.
FEDERAL PROGRAMS
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine
recommendations to reduce risk of waste, fraud, and
mismanagement in Federal programs, after receiving
testimony from Gene L. Dodaro, Comptroller Gen-
eral, Cathleen Berrick, Managing Director, Defense
Capabilities and Management, Nikki Clowers, Man-
aging Director, Health Care, Elizabeth Curda, Direc-
tor, Education, Workforce, and Income Security,
Mark Gaffigan, Managing Director, Natural Re-
sources and Environment, Nick Marinos, Director,
Information Technology and Cybersecurity, and
Chris Mihm, Managing Director, Strategic Issues, all
of the Government Accountability Office.
SMUGGLING OF PERSONS AT THE
SOUTHERN BORDER
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded an
oversight hearing to examine Customs and Border
Protection’s response to the smuggling of persons at
the southern border, after receiving testimony from
Kevin K. McAleenan, Commissioner, Customs and
Border Protection, Department of Homeland Secu-
rity; Michael J. Fisher, Advanced Technology Sys-
tems Company, McLean, Virginia; Julie M. Linton,
American Academy of Pediatrics, Washington, D.C.;
and Timothy Ballard, Operation Undergound Rail-
road, Anaheim, California.
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
Committee on Rules and Administration: Committee
concluded an oversight hearing to examine the Li-
brary of Congress, after receiving testimony from
Carla Hayden, Librarian of Congress.
THE AMERICAN WORKER
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine small busi-
ness and the American worker, after receiving testi-
mony from Oren M. Cass, Manhattan Institute for
Policy Research, New York, New York; Betsey Ste-
venson, University of Michigan Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy, Ann Arbor; Caryn York, Job
Opportunities Task Force, Washington, D.C.; and
John W. Lettieri, Economic Innovation Group, Bal-
timore, Maryland.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:43 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06MR9.REC D06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D222 March 6, 2019
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES
Special Committee on Aging: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the complex web of prescription
drug prices, focusing on patients struggling with ris-
ing costs, after receiving testimony from Michelle
Dehetre, Lewiston, Maine; Pamela Holt, Granger,
Indiana; Donnette Smith, Huntsville, Alabama; Shel-
don Armus, Boynton Beach, Florida; and Barbara
and David Cisek, Rural Ridge, Pennsylvania.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 30 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1549–1578; and 2 resolutions, H.
Res. 180–181 were introduced. Pages H2502–04
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H2505–06
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Bustos to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H2373
Recess: The House recessed at 10:27 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H2377
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H2377, H2390
For the People Act of 2019: The House considered
H.R. 1, to expand Americans’ access to the ballot
box, reduce the influence of big money in politics,
and strengthen ethics rules for public servants. Con-
sideration is expected to resume tomorrow, March
7th. Pages H2390–H2498
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–7, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of H. Rept. 116–16, shall
be considered as adopted in the House and in the
Committee of the Whole, in lieu of the amendment
in the nature of a substitute recommended by the
Committee on House Administration now printed in
the bill. Page H2409
Agreed to:
Suozzi amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–16) that requires the Federal Elections
Commission to conduct an audit after each Federal
election cycle to determine the incidence of illicit
foreign money in the election; within 180 Days, the
FEC will submit to Congress a report containing
audit results and recommendation(s) to address the
presence of illicit foreign money; Pages H2479–80
Butterfield amendment (No. 2 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–16) that ensures states locate poll-
ing locations for early voting in rural areas of the
state and ensure that those polling places are located
in communities that will give rural residents the
best opportunity to vote during the early voting pe-
riod; Pages H2480–81
Hastings amendment (No. 4 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that requires states to submit a
report to Congress not later than 120 days after the
end of a Federal election cycle regarding the number
of ballots invalidated by signature mismatch, the at-
tempts to contact voters to provide notice, and the
cure process and results; Pages H2483–84
Scanlon amendment (No. 6 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that establishes a fourth com-
mittee comprised of election security experts to re-
view grant requests to ensure funds for election in-
frastructure are best spent; Pages H2485–57
Scanlon amendment (No. 7 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that requests a study by the Fed-
eral Election Commission to specifically assess
whether the small donor match cap and the six-to-
one ratio in H.R. 1 is appropriately scaled for both
House and Senate elections; Pages H2487–88
Morelle amendment (No. 8 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that changes pre-election registra-
tion deadlines from 30 days to 28 days before elec-
tion day to ensure the deadline does not fall on a
legal public holiday; Page H2488
Shalala amendment (No. 9 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–16) that requires the Office of Govern-
ment Ethics to submit a report to Congress regard-
ing the implications of the retroactive application of
the ethics waiver process; Pages H2488–89
Biggs amendment (No. 11 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that provides that State DMV’s
shall require individuals applying for a driver’s li-
cense to indicate whether the individual resides in
another State or resided in another State prior to ap-
plying, and whether the individual intends for the
State to serve as the primary residence for voting;
Page H2489
Ted Lieu (CA) amendment (No. 12 printed in
part B of H. Rept. 116–16) that prohibits political
appointees from using Federal funds to pay for travel
on non-commercial, private, or chartered flights for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:43 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06MR9.REC D06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D223
March 6, 2019
official business; exceptions are made if no commer-
cial flight is available during the time at which trav-
el is necessary; any senior political appointee who
travels on a non-commercial, private, or chartered
flight under the above exception must submit a
written statement to Congress certifying that no
commercial flight was available; Pages H2489–90
Jayapal amendment (No. 13 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that directs the Office of Govern-
ment Ethics to promulgate rules to apply ethics laws
to unpaid employees of the Executive Office of the
President and the White House; Pages H2490–91
Jayapal amendment (No. 14 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that prohibits compensation for
lobbying contacts on behalf of foreign countries
identified by the Secretary of State as engaging in a
consistent pattern of gross violations of internation-
ally recognized human rights; Pages H2491–92
Jayapal amendment (No. 15 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that directs the Office of Govern-
ment Ethics to promulgate regulations establishing
limits on gifts and donations to legal defense funds;
the regulations shall, at a minimum, set basic re-
quirements on transparency and prohibit mixing fed-
eral employees with non-federal employees to ensure
federal employees cannot obtain money from prohib-
ited sources; Pages H2492–94
Connolly amendment (No. 16 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–16) that establishes a Race to the
Top model to award supplementary grants to state
applicants based on evidence of previous voting sys-
tem security reforms and plans for implementing ad-
ditional innovations; Page H2494
Foxx amendment (No. 17 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–16) that codifies a Senate rule that brings
transparency to sources of compensation for Congres-
sional fellowships, applying it to both chambers;
Pages H2494–95
Lawrence amendment (No. 18 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–16) that adds Cabinet members to
the list of individuals prohibited from benefiting
from an agreement with the U.S. Government;
Pages H2495–96
Rouda amendment (No. 20 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that requires that all paper ballots
used in an election for Federal office must be printed
on recycled paper; this requirement applies to all
elections occurring on or after January 1, 2021;
Page H2496
Rouda amendment (No. 21 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that directs the Election Assist-
ance Commission to conduct a study of the best
ways to design ballots used in elections for public
office to minimize confusion, including paper and
digital ballots to minimize confusion and user errors;
the EAC must submit to Congress this report no
later than January 1, 2020; and Pages H2496–97
Rouda amendment (No. 22 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–16) that directs the Postmaster Gen-
eral to modify paper change of address forms used
by the United States Postal Service to include a re-
minder that any individual using the form should
update the individual’s voter registration as a result
of any change in address. Pages H2497–98
Proceedings Postponed:
Raskin amendment (No. 3 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–16) that seeks to prevent corporate ex-
penditures for campaign purposes unless the corpora-
tion has established a process for determining the
political will of its shareholders; and Pages H2481–83
Cole amendment (No. 5 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–16) that seeks to restore a provision cur-
rently in law that bars government contractors from
disclosing campaign contributions as part of the bid-
ding process. Pages H2484–85
H. Res. 172, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 1) was agreed to by a yea-and-nay
vote of 232 yeas to 192 nays, Roll No. 107, after
the previous question was ordered by a yea-and-nay
vote of 232 yeas to 191 nays, Roll No. 106.
Pages H2379–88
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H2387–88 and H2388.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 8:19 p.m.
Committee Meetings
PUBLIC WITNESS HEARING—TRIBAL
PROGRAMS
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Public Witness Hearing—Tribal
Programs’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partment of Homeland Security held an oversight
hearing on the Office of Inspector General, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security. Testimony was heard
from John V. Kelly, Acting Inspector General, De-
partment of Homeland Security.
ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD
MODERNIZATION AND INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY OVERSIGHT
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Mili-
tary Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:43 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06MR9.REC D06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D224 March 6, 2019
Agencies held a hearing entitled ‘‘Electronic Health
Record Modernization and Information Technology
Oversight’’. Testimony was heard from the following
Department of Veterans Affairs officials: James M.
Byrne, General Counsel, Performing the Duties of
the Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs; James P.
Gfrerer, Assistant Secretary for Information and
Technology and Chief Information Officer; and John
H. Windom, Executive Director, Office of Electronic
Health Record Modernization.
PROTECTING STUDENT BORROWERS:
LOAN SERVICING OVERSIGHT
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Protecting Student Borrowers: Loan Servicing
Oversight’’. Testimony was heard from Bryon Gor-
don, Assistant Inspector General for Audit, Office of
Inspector General, Department of Education;
Shennan Kavanagh, Assistant Attorney General and
Deputy Chief of Consumer Protection Division, Of-
fice of Massachusetts Attorney General; and public
witnesses.
MEMBER DAY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’. Testimony was
heard from Chairman McGovern, Chairman Engel,
and Representatives Case, Espaillat, Yoho and Wag-
ner.
PUBLIC WITNESS HEARING—TRIBAL
PROGRAMS
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Public Witness Hearing—Tribal
Programs’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
U.S. CENTRAL COMMAND
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense
held an oversight hearing on U.S. Central Command.
Testimony was heard from General Joseph L. Votel,
Commander, U.S. Central Command. This hearing
was closed.
OUTSIDE PERSPECTIVES ON NUCLEAR
DETERRENCE POLICY AND POSTURE
UPDATE
Committee on Armed Services: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Outside Perspectives on Nuclear
Deterrence Policy and Posture Update’’. Testimony
was heard from public witnesses.
FISCAL YEAR 2020 BUDGET: MEMBER’S
DAY
Committee on the Budget: Full Committee held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Budget: Member’s
Day’’. Testimony was heard from Chairman Johnson
of Texas, Chairman McGovern, and Representatives
Case, Cole, Plaskett, Olsen, Malinowski, Cohen,
Adams, Miller, Luján, Scanlon, Bucshon, Burgess,
Haaland, Hoyer, McAdams, Cline, Houlahan, Biggs,
Cloud and Arrington.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a markup on H.R. 582, the ‘‘Raise the Wage
Act’’. H.R. 582 was ordered reported, as amended.
STRENGTHENING OUR HEALTH CARE
SYSTEM: LEGISLATION TO LOWER
CONSUMER COSTS AND EXPANDING
ACCESS
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘Strengthening Our
Health Care System: Legislation to Lower Consumer
Costs and Expanding Access’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
INCLUSION IN TECH: HOW DIVERSITY
BENEFITS ALL AMERICANS
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Consumer Protection and Commerce held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Inclusion in Tech: How Diversity Benefits
All Americans’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held
a business meeting on the Views and Estimates of
the Committee on Financial Services on Matters to
be Set Forth in the Concurrent Resolution on the
Budget for Fiscal Year 2020. The Committee’s
Budget Views and Estimates were adopted, as
amended.
THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS IN YEMEN:
ADDRESSING CURRENT POLITICAL AND
HUMANITARIAN CHALLENGES
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Middle East, North Africa, and International Ter-
rorism held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Humanitarian
Crisis in Yemen: Addressing Current Political and
Humanitarian Challenges’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:43 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06MR9.REC D06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D225
March 6, 2019
THE WAY FORWARD ON BORDER
SECURITY
Committee on Homeland Security: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘The Way Forward on Border Se-
curity’’. Testimony was heard from Kirstjen Nielsen,
Secretary, Department of Homeland Security.
PROTECTING DREAMERS AND TPS
RECIPIENTS
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting Dreamers and TPS Re-
cipients’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
EXAMINING THE POLICIES AND
PRIORITIES OF THE BUREAU OF OCEAN
ENERGY MANAGEMENT, THE BUREAU OF
SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
ENFORCEMENT, AND THE U.S.
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on En-
ergy and Mineral Resources held a hearing entitled
‘‘Examining the Policies and Priorities of the Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management, the Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement, and the U.S. Geo-
logical Survey’’. Testimony was heard from Walter
Cruickshank, Acting Director, Bureau of Ocean En-
ergy Management; and Doug Morris, Chief, Office of
Offshore Regulatory Programs, Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement, Department of the In-
terior.
EXAMINING PFAS CHEMICALS AND THEIR
RISKS
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Environment held a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining
PFAS Chemicals and their Risks’’. Testimony was
heard from Representatives Fitzpatrick and Kildee;
Dave Ross, Assistant Administrator, Office of Water,
Environmental Protection Agency; and Maureen Sul-
livan, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for En-
vironment, Department of Defense.
GAO’S 2019 HIGH RISK REPORT
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘GAO’s 2019 High Risk Re-
port’’. Testimony was heard from Gene L. Dodaro,
Comptroller General of the United States, Govern-
ment Accountability Office.
MAINTAINING U.S. LEADERSHIP IN
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Maintaining U.S.
Leadership in Science and Technology’’. Testimony
was heard from public witnesses.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
business meeting on the Committee’s Budget Views
and Estimates for Fiscal Year 2020. The Commit-
tee’s Budget Views and Estimates were adopted.
REBUILDING AMERICA: SMALL BUSINESS
PERSPECTIVE
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Rebuilding America: Small Busi-
ness Perspective’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
U.S. MARITIME AND SHIPBUILDING
INDUSTRIES: STRATEGIES TO IMPROVE
REGULATION, ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES,
AND COMPETITIVENESS
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transpor-
tation held a hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Maritime and
Shipbuilding Industries: Strategies to Improve Regu-
lation, Economic Opportunities, and Competitive-
ness’’. Testimony was heard from Rear Admiral John
Nadeau, Assistant Commandant for Prevention Pol-
icy, U.S. Coast Guard; Rear Admiral Mark H.
Buzby, U.S. Navy (Ret.), Administrator, Maritime
Administration; and public witnesses.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Ways and Means: Full Committee held
a business meeting on the Views and Estimates Let-
ter to the Committee on the Budget. The Commit-
tee’s Budget Views and Estimates were adopted,
without amendment.
OUR NATION’S CRUMBLING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE NEED FOR
IMMEDIATE ACTION
Committee on Ways and Means: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Our Nation’s Crumbling Infra-
structure and the Need for Immediate Action’’. Tes-
timony was heard from Chairman DeFazio and Rep-
resentative Graves of Missouri; and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
VFW LEGISLATIVE PRESENTATION
Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Committee con-
cluded a joint hearing with the House Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs to examine the legislative pres-
entation of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, after re-
ceiving testimony from Vincent Lawrence, Bob Wal-
lace, Ryan Gallucci, Carlos Fuentes, and Darrell
Bencken, all of Veterans of Foreign Wars of the
United States, Washington, D.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:43 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06MR9.REC D06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D226 March 6, 2019
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
MARCH 7, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the chain of command’s accountability to provide safe
military housing and other building infrastructure to
servicemembers and their families, 9:30 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Security, to hold hearings to examine
China, focusing on challenges for United States com-
merce, 10 a.m., SD–562.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: business
meeting to consider the nominations of Rita Baranwal, of
Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary (Nuclear En-
ergy), William Cooper, of Maryland, to be General Coun-
sel, Christopher Fall, of Virginia, to be Director of the
Office of Science, and Lane Genatowski, of New York, to
be Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-
Energy, all of the Department of Energy; to be imme-
diately followed by a hearing to examine an overview of
the multiple values and unique issues of access and devel-
opment associated with public lands in the western
United States, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on West-
ern Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian Security,
Democracy, Human Rights, and Global Women’s Issues,
to hold hearings to examine United States-Venezuela rela-
tions and the path to a democratic transition, 10 a.m.,
SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, to hold hear-
ings to examine private sector data breaches, 10 a.m.,
SD–106.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
the nominations of Joseph F. Bianco, of New York, and
Michael H. Park, of New York, both to be a United
States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, Greg Girard
Guidry, to be United States District Judge for the East-
ern District of Louisiana, Michael T. Liburdi, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Arizona,
and Peter D. Welte, to be United States District Judge
for the District of North Dakota, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: to hold a joint hearing
with the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to exam-
ine the legislative presentation of multiple veterans serv-
ice organizations, 2 p.m., SD–G50.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed brief-
ing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
Special Committee on Aging: to hold hearings to examine
the complex web of prescription drug prices, focusing on
untangling the web and paths forward, 10 a.m., SD–138.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Interior,
Environment, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled
‘‘Public Witness Hearing—Tribal Programs’’, 9 a.m.,
2007 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, budget hearing
on the Library of Congress, 9:15 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies, oversight hearing on the Executive Office
for Immigration Review, 10 a.m., H–309 Capitol.
Subcommittee on the Departments of Labor, Health
and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies,
hearing entitled ‘‘Addressing the Public Health Emer-
gency of Gun Violence’’, 10:30 a.m., 2358–C Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Departments of Transportation,
and Housing and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Stakeholder Perspectives: Af-
fordable Housing Production’’, 10:30 a.m., 2358–A Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘VA Whole
Health, Mental Health and Homelessness’’, 11 a.m.,
HT–2 Capitol.
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and
Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Energy Workforce
Opportunities and Challenges’’, 1 p.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Public Witness Hearing—
Tribal Programs’’, 1 p.m., 2007 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Gov-
ernment, budget hearing on the Supreme Court, 1:30
p.m., 2359 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Defense, oversight hearing on the
U.S. European Command, 3 p.m., H–140 Capitol. This
hearing will be closed.
Committee on Armed Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘National Security Challenges and U.S. Military
Activities in the Greater Middle East and Africa’’, 10
a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces; and
Subcommittee on Readiness, joint hearing entitled ‘‘U.S.
Transportation Command and Maritime Administration:
State of the Mobility Enterprise’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Education And Labor, Subcommittee on
Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘The Cost of Inaction: Why Congress Must Address
the Multiemployer Pension Crisis’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175
Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on En-
ergy, hearing entitled ‘‘Wasted Energy: DOE’s Inaction
on Efficiency Standards and Its Impact on Consumers and
the Climate’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Putting Consumers First? A Semi-Annual Re-
view of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’’, 10
a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, markup
on H. Res. 75, strongly condemning the January 2019
terrorist attack on the 14 Riverside Complex in Nairobi,
Kenya; H.R. 739, the ‘‘Cyber Diplomacy Act of 2019’’;
H. Res. 156 calling for accountability and justice for the
assassination of Boris Nemtsov; H.R. 596, the ‘‘Crimea
Annexation Non-recognition Act’’; and H.R. 295, the
‘‘End Banking for Human Traffickers Act of 2019’’, 10
a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:43 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06MR9.REC D06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D227
March 6, 2019
Subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa, and
International Terrorism, hearing entitled ‘‘The Status of
American Hostages in Iran’’, 1:30 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Over-
sight, Management, and Accountability, hearing entitled
‘‘CBP Workforce Challenges: Exploring Solutions to Ad-
dress Recruitment and Retention’’, 2 p.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Crime,
Terrorism and Homeland Security, hearing entitled ‘‘Re-
authorization of the Violence Against Women Act’’, 10
a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial, and Admin-
istrative Law, hearing entitled ‘‘Diagnosing the Problem:
Exploring the Effects of Consolidation and Anticompeti-
tive Conduct in Health Care Markets’’, 2 p.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water,
Oceans, and Wildlife, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the
Threats to the North Atlantic Right Whale’’, 10 a.m.,
1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Trump Administration’s Response to
the Drug Crisis’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘The Energy Water Nexus:
Drier Watts and Cheaper Drops’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Small but Mighty: A Review of the SBA
Microloan Program’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Water Resources and Environment, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Clean Water State Revolving Fund: How
Federal Infrastructure Investment Can Help Communities
Modernize Water Infrastructure and Address Affordability
Challenges’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Over-
sight, hearing entitled ‘‘Hearing with the National Tax-
payer Advocate on the IRS Filing Season’’, 10 a.m., 2020
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Promoting
Competition to Lower Medicare Drug Prices’’, 10 a.m.,
1100 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Worker and Family Support, hearing
entitled ‘‘Leveling the Playing Field for Working Fami-
lies: Challenges and Opportunities’’, 2 p.m., 2020 Ray-
burn.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, business meeting on Adoption of the Committee’s
Views and Estimates Letter, 9 a.m., HVC–304. This
meeting will be closed.
Joint Meetings
Joint Hearing: Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
to hold a joint hearing with the House Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs to examine the legislative presentation of
multiple veterans service organizations, 2 p.m., SD–G50.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:43 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06MR9.REC D06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D228 March 6, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Thursday, March 7
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit,
post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the nomination
at 12:30 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Eric E.
Murphy, Senate will resume consideration of the nomina-
tion of John Fleming, of Louisiana, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Economic Development, and vote
on confirmation of the nomination at 1:45 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Thursday, March 7
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Continue consideration of H.R.
1—For the People Act of 2019.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bishop, Rob, Utah., E251
Connolly, Gerald E., Va., E256, E256, E257, E257, E258,
E258, E259, E259, E259, E260
Cook, Paul, Calif., E251
DeSaulnier, Mark, Calif., E255
Diaz-Balart, Mario, Fla., E252, E253, E255
Guthrie, Brett, Ky., E255
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E252
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E251, E252, E253, E254, E254,
E256
McHenry, Patrick T., N.C., E253
McNerney, Jerry, Calif., E254
Pence, Greg, Ind., E255
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E251, E251, E252, E252, E253,
E253, E254, E254, E254, E255
Posey, Bill, Fla., E254
San Nicolas, Michael F.Q., Guam , E256, E258
Tipton, Scott R., Colo., E251
Watkins, Steven C., Jr., Kans., E253
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:43 Mar 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D06MR9.REC D06MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
