Title : Antitrust Law : An Introduction
Author : Congress Research Service
Topic : Breif introduction to antitrust by reviwing the
	economic assumptions on which it is based and the key
	substantive provisions of the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890
	and Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914.

Rational For AntiTrust Law
- Perfect competitive markets are characterized by low barriers to entry, 
products priced at the cost of production, homogenous products,
well informed buyers and sellers, low transaction costs.

- market power : the ability to profitably raise prices above
perfectly competitive levels.  At extreme, a market can be
monopolized when a single firm possesses significant durable
market power.

antitrust law : focused on preventing these harms by prohibiting
anticompetitive conduct and mergers that enable firms to exercise
market power. 

Section 1: Agreements in Restraint of Trade
- Sherman act prohibits every contract combination or conspiracy
in restraint of trade or commerce"
- Supreme court has relide on common law back to conclude that this
section only applies to unreasonable competition.
- Analysis is conducted under the standard "Rule of Reason" or
a totality of the circumstances, whether it challenges on teh whole
is good or bad for competition.

Section 2: Monopolization
- it is unlawful to monopolize or attempt to monopolize
"any part of the trade or commerce among the several 
states".  Firms must obtain market power through anticompetitive
conduct as opposed to legitimate means.
- example : profit-sacrifice test - forgoing short term profits
that are expected to be recooped in the long term after competitors
go out of business. 

Clayton Antitrust Act 1914
- Bars certain forms of price discrimination and mergers that
are likely to harm competition.
- Makes it unlawful to a seller to charge buyers different prices
for commodities of like grade and quality when such discrimination
is likely to injure competition.

further reading : horizontal versus vertical mergers





