Paper :	Text as Data: The Promise and Pitfalls of Automatic Content
	Analytis Methods for Polital Texts.

Author : Justin Grimmer


Topic : Automated text analysis. 
	Argue that it makes practical analysing large bodies of text.
	For these methods to become standard tools for political
	scientists methdologists must contribute new moethods and means
	of validation.

Questions:
- Data generating process to produce texts?


Intro :
	Analyzing massive collections of text has been essentially impossible
	for all but the most well-funded projects.
	Automated text analysis makes this possible without massive funding
	support.
	Do not believe automated methods will replace human analysis. Automated
	methods incorrect models of language.
	Methods - classification and scaling.  

	Classification
	1. Midex Membershi Models - problem specific structure to assist in the
		estimation of categories.
	2. Computer Assisted Clustering - provides methods to explore thousands of
	potential clusterins.  

	Scaling:
	- estimate location of actors in policy space or produce 'scaling'
	1. Word Scores: relies on guidance from ref texts to situate other
		political actors in a space.
	2. Word Fish : exploits an assumption about how ideology affects word usage.
		Sounds like they use models to assign actors to a particular polical
		group based on the words that they use.
	
	Four Principles of Automated Text Analysis
	1.) All Quantitative Models of Language Are Wrong - But Some Are Useful
		- The goal of building text models is diff than model building to
		make causal inferences, which is the primary goal of most political
		science models.
		*It appears that the authors believe text analysis should be used
		for categorizing texts and other sort of meanial tasks, but not
		for interpreting the meaning of the text itself.

	2.) Quantitative Methods Augment Humans - Not Replace Them
		- The most productive line of inquiry is to identify the best way
		to use both humans and automated moethods for analysing texts.

	3.) There is not global best method for automating text analysis
		- Each research question may require a separate and or unique
		model.
		- Believe that the most import lines of inquiry is identifying eff
		ways to combine distinct methods for quantitative text analysis.
	
	4.) Validate, Validate, Validate
		- Authors contend that even with unsupervised learning models there
		should be a validation set or means to validate the accuracy of the
		model.


	Language Complexity: From Words to Numbers
	- Authors present how to transform text into quantitative data.
	- Unit of analysis will be the text or document.
	- Collection of texts as corpus and collection of corus as corpora.
	- Note:  When this paper was being written they were still using the bag of words
	method which disgards the ordering of the words. 

	
	Methods :

	1.) Dictionary Methods:
		- key value pairs where the key is a word or the tone of a word and the value
		is the count.
		- Authors contend that we should be very careful to use off the shelf dict that
		are not particular to the context of the body of text to be analized, ex financial
		statement analysis. 


	Continue: Discovering Categories & Topics





